Basic Info
Pittsburgh's population is 302,971
Pittsburgh's active bridge count is 143
jasujazmudzinski

Trash
When a holiday falls on or before your collection day, your pick-up will be one day later.
On January 1st, 2025 (New Year's Day) trash is being picked up on Wednesday
On January 20, 2025 (Martin Luther King Jr Day) trash is being picked up on Monday
On May 26, 2025	(Memorial Day) trash is being picked up on Monday
On June 19, 2025 (Juneteenth) trash is being picked up on Thursday
On July 4, 2025 (Independence Day) trash is being picked up on Friday
On September 1, 2025 (Labor Day), trash is being picked up on Monday
On November 27, 2025 (Thanksgiving Day), trash is being picked up on Thursday
On December 25, 2025 (Christmas Day), trash is being picked up on Thursday

Curbside Refuse: each week Environmental Services provides curbside pick up of common refuse.
In addition to common household trash, curbside refuse also accepts: Furniture like chairs, end tables, and shelving, Bicycles, Larger household items like garden tools, ironing boards, Roasters and grills, Small appliances (excluding “e-waste” or Freon based equipment”), Bulk waste.
Hazardous waste is not accepted via curbside pick-up. Tires, e-wast, infectious or flammable material, bricks, cement, car parts, freon appliances, batteries, etc


Curbside Recycling: All residents of single-family homes and small apartments (five or fewer) must separate recyclable items from household trash and package them for bi-weekly recycling curbside collection.
Blue Bin Program: The City of Pittsburgh has recently wrapped a program to distribute 100,000+ blue recycling bins to residents and became bag free curbside in 2024. The goal is to make recycling easier for residents and reduce recycling contamination. Each residence serviced by the Bureau of Environmental Services received a 32-gallon blue recycling bin with a tight-fitting lid attached and an information packet. All recycling bins were manufactured in Pennsylvania by The Rehrig-Pacific Company. Please keep in mind this effort was a one-time initiative with enough resources only to distribute one blue bin per household that Environmental Services collects recyclables from. If more than one bin is needed or the original bin was not kept with the address, residents are required to supply their own blue bin, clearly marked for recycling and not in excess of 35 gallons.
jasujazmudzinski

Community Programs
Love Your Block is a City of Pittsburgh program that brings neighbors together to improve our communities by combating blight, creating assets, and building resilience, block by block. Nonprofit organizations across Pittsburgh are invited to propose projects for up to $2,500 in funds. Funding supports volunteer-fueled neighborhood improvement projects.
City Cuts is the City of Pittsburgh’s lawn cutting program for our older neighbors, our veteran neighbors, and our neighbors with disabilities who do not have the means to cut their own grass. In 2025, services will be provided twice a month (weather permitting) from early summer through early mid-fall. Applicants must reside in the City of Pittsburgh limits, own the property or be responsible for the grass cutting of the property, lack social or financial means to cut their own lawns, and meet one or more of the follow qualifications: Be 62 years or older, Be a veteran, Have a disability that prohibits you from cutting grass, OR Low income 150% below Federal Poverty Guideline.
Snow Angles is a program that pairs older residents and residents with disabilities with nearby neighbors who volunteer to assist them with snow removal on their sidewalks and walkways.

Parks
Pittsburgh has 176 parks, spanning 3800 acres 
jasujazmudzinski

The Oliver Bath House remains closed. Major renovations are scheduled to begin in Spring 2023. Re-opening is anticipated for FALL 2025.
Indoor Aquatics Programs at Oliver Bath House (OBH)
Location: 38 S. 10th Street, South Side
Info: 412-488-8380
Closed for the Summer
The Oliver Bath House is an indoor facility open during the fall, winter and spring seasons for aquatic recreation. Make a splash by joining a water aerobics class, enjoying a family swim session — or Learn to Swim.
Note: Any child under the age of 6 must be accompanied by an adult (16 years or older) in the pool.
Programs include water aerobics and swimming lessons for infants, preschoolers, children and adults. Scheduled sessions will include open swim, family swim, adult swim and health & fitness swim.
Season passes purchased during the summer for admission to Citiparks outdoor pools will be honored at the Oliver Bath House. Individuals can buy pool tags at the indoor pool during regular operating hours.
jasujazmudzinski

Pools & Operating Hours

Monday, August 18 through Sunday, August 24, 2025
Monday - Friday

12-1 PM: Adult Lap Swim
1-7 PM: Open Swim
7-7:45 PM: Adult Lap Swim

Saturday & Sunday

12-1 PM: Adult Lap Swim
1-5:45 PM Open Swim

*Ammon will operate on WEEKENDS ONLY.
**Highland early Adult Lap Swim will be held from 11 AM to 1 PM.
***Due to size & capacity limitations, Schenley Pool is unable to host lap swim.

Monday, August 25 through Friday, August 29, 2025
Highland & Moore Pools ONLY
12-1 PM: Adult Lap Swim
1-7 PM: Open Swim
7-7:45 PM: Adult Lap Swim

*Highland early Adult Lap Swim will be held from 11 AM to 1 PM.

Saturday, August 30 through Monday, September 1, 2025
All 7 Pools will operate with the following hours:

Saturday & Sunday

12-1 PM: Adult Lap Swim
1-5:45 PM Open Swim

*Ammon will operate on WEEKENDS ONLY.
**Highland early Adult Lap Swim will be held from 11 AM to 1 PM.
***Due to size & capacity limitations, Schenley Pool is unable to host lap swim.

All Hours of Operation Are Subject to Change, and Weather Dependent.

Last day of operations at McBride and Sue Murray is Friday, August 15, 2025.
Last day of operations at Ammon, Banksville, Magee, Ormsby, Phillips, Riverview, Westwood & West Penn is Sunday, August 17, 2025.
Homewood and Sheraden Pools remain closed as the Park & Pool renovations for each location continue.

CitiParks has a chaperone policy in place at Highland and Ormsby Pools.  Pool guests ages 15 and under must be accompanied by an adult 21 years old or older.  Chaperones must show ID and are responsible for ensuring minors under their supervision follow pool rules.
Addresses and Phone Numbers

Ammon Pool
2217 Bedford Avenue, 15219
412-255-0659

Banksville Pool
1461 Crane Avenue, 15220
412-571-3231

Bloomfield Pool
408 Ella Street, 15224
412-622-6956

Highland Pool
151 Lake Drive, 15206
412-665-3637

Jack Stack Pool
600 Brighton Woods Road, 15212
412-766-4577

Magee Pool
745 Greenfield Avenue, 15217
412-422-4265

McBride Pool
1785 McBride Avenue, 15207
412-476-1311

Moore Pool
1801 Pioneer Avenue, 15226
412-571-3223

Ormsby Pool
79 S. 22nd Street, 15203
412-488-8377

Phillips Pool
201 Parkfield Street, 15210
412-885-7498

Ream Pool
321 Merimac Street, 15211
412-488-8312

Riverview Pool
400 Riverview Avenue, 15214
412-323-7223

Schenley Pool
Overlook Drive, Schenley Park, 15213
412-422-4266

Sue Murray Pool
301 Cedar Avenue, 15212
412-323-7914

Westwood Pool
100 Guyland Street, 15205
412-937-3061

West Penn Pool
450 30th Street, 15219
412-622-6908

Holidays
Holidays: Juneteenth (6/19), July 4th and Labor Day (9/2).
jasujazmudzinski
The Schenley Park Ice Skating Rink opened in 1975 and has entertained ice skaters and hockey players ever since! Located in scenic Schenley Park, the Rink offers family fun for everyone!  Join us this season as we skate in to our 50th Anniversary in January!

Opening Day for the 2025-26 Skating Season will be announced in late October 2025.

For the 2025-2026 Skating Season

300 person maximum per skating session.
Skaters must be present to purchase admission at the box office.
Parents and Guardians not wanting to skate will still be charged admission and counted in the 300 skater maximum.
Skate aids are available at all sessions except for adult only, on a first come first serve basis.
There are no exit/re-entry privileges; once you leave, you may not come back in.
When we hit maximum capacity, we close admission.
Concessions, vending and arcade games will not be available.
No outside food or drinks allowed in Rink facility. Water is the only exception.
Skate sessions are 90 minutes-no intermission.
Please keep in mind: Outdoor skating is weather dependent, as warm temperatures and lots of sunshine can deteriorate the ice. Please feel free to call the Rink at 412.422.6523 if you have questions. CitiParks will continue to post all Rink updates on social media: @CitiParksPGH on Facebook, @CitiParks on X, and @CitiParks on Instagram.

Location
10341 Overlook Drive (Near the Tennis Courts), in Schenley Park, Pittsburgh PA 15213
(412) 422-6523
schenleyrink@pittsburghpa.gov
Private Ice Time Rentals available call or e-mail today.
jasujazmudzinski

Biography
Mayor Ed Gainey
Mayor Ed Gainey grew up in East Liberty and saw firsthand the economic hardships many families face in our city. Raised by a single mother, he counted on the support of his extended family and community to build a pathway to high school and college. Inspired to do the same for others, Ed Gainey discovered in college that an effective government can be a powerful tool to fight injustice and uplift communities. As a State Representative in Harrisburg he was on the front line fighting for working families, and as Mayor of Pittsburgh he'll work everyday to make Pittsburgh a city where all can belong and contribute. Ed and his wife Michelle have three children and live in the Lincoln-Lemington neighborhood of Pittsburgh.
jasujazmudzinski
jasujazmudzinski

Pittsburgh City Cabinet
Felicity Williams: Deputy Chief of Staff
Jake Pawlak: Deputy Mayor & Director of the Office of Management and Budget
Kyle Chintalapalli: Chief Economic Development Officer and Chief of Staff
Lisa Frank: Chief Operating and Administrative Officer
Pamela Collier: Special Assistant to the Mayor
Patrick Cornell: Chief Financial Officer

Office of the Mayor
Adrianna Branin: Manager, Inclusion, Diversity, Equity and Access (IDEA)
Alexis Walker: Prosperity Manager
Anne Marie Ellison: Manager, Office of Equal Protection
Ashley Bryant: Neighborhood Engagement Coordinator
Chastity Bey: Neighborhood Engagement Coordinator
Cherise Green: Coordinator, Inclusion, Diversity, Equity and Access
Chuck Durham: Manager, Office of Business Diversity
Cydney Cooper: Interim Director of Communications
Daniel Moore: Contract Compliance Analyst
Darius Wallace: Strategic Projects Administrator
Derrick Caldwell: Youth Coordinator
Jacob Williams: Press Officer
Jan Raether: Infrastructure Engagement and Performance Operations Manager
Lindsey Aquino-Robles: Neighborhood Engagement Coordinator
Lori Criswell: Executive Administrative Assistant to the Chief of Staff
Matt Klink: Performance & Operations Analyst
Michelle King: Policy Coordinator, Office of Immigrant and Refugee Affairs
Michelle Walker: ADA Compliance Coordinator
Naomi Johnson: Assistant Manager, 311 Response Team
Nathan Harper: Manager, Office of Immigrant and Refugee Affairs
Olga George: Press Secretary
Paul Scott: Engagement Manager
Pilar Briggs: Press Officer
Upasna Goswami: Coordinator, Office of Business Diversity
Wendy Urbanic: Manager, 311 Response Team
Yasmin Shaheed: Executive Administrator to the Mayor
Department Directors
Chris Hornstein: Director of Public Works
David Green: Director of Permits, Licenses, & Inspections
Erin Bruni: Manager of Office of Municipal Investigations
Heidi Norman: Director of Innovation & Performance, CIO
Jamil Bey: Director of City Planning 
Jennifer Gula: Director of Finance & Treasurer of City & School District of Pittsburgh
Kathryn Vargas: Director of Parks and Recreations
Kim Lucas: Director of Mobility and Infrastructure
Krysia Kubiak: City Solicitor
Lee Schmidt: Director of Public Safety
Paula Kellerman: Director, Human Resources & Civil Service and EEOCity of Pittsburgh Seal

Public Safety Chiefs
Amera Gilchrist: Chief of Emergency Medical Services
Darryl JonesDarryl Jones: Chief of Bureau of Fire
Martin Devine: Acting Chief of Bureau of Police
jasujazmudzinski

The Youth Civic Leadership Academy (YCLA) helps youth do the heavy lifting emerging adulthood requires by equipping youth with transferable skills, competencies, and experiential learning necessary to thrive as civic leaders, community stewards, and change-makers in the workplace and beyond. YCLA will provide opportunities for youth to access, explore, and experience career fields typically deemed off-limits for youth of color and those without significant monetary and social capital within Pittsburgh including decision-making fields like civics, education, and infrastructure.

Through a 3 phased experiential learning and project-based approach, YCLA will equip youth with insights into Pittsburgh’s past, resources of the present, and the vision of Pittsburgh's future with the mayor being a direct mentor committed to imbuing youth with a sense of belonging and relevant regional identity. Beyond a transactional or removed level of engagement merely informing youth that certain career fields exist,

YCLA provides a literal one-of-a-kind immersive and integrative experience made possible through the leadership of the City of Pittsburgh Office of the Mayor and supporting partners-the Community College of Allegheny County, the Heinz History Center, Partner4Work, and Youth Enrichment Services, Inc. (YES) YCLA scholars will not only see themselves as capable of having a career but also as being a part of Pittsburgh’s career ecosystem. Youth will earn college credit through a partnership with CCAC and be enrolled in a course that is specially designed to support their civic competency but also exposure to city departments in hopes to obtain a job given their area of interest. They will be able to participate in a circuit-style internship experience over the 11 weeks in the program.
jasujazmudzinski
The City Controller is one of two independently elected, citywide offices in the City of Pittsburgh, the other being the Mayor. The term of office for the City Controller is four years, and is not term limited.

The City Controller is the fiscal watchdog for the citizens of the City of Pittsburgh. It is the job of the Controller to protect City tax dollars from waste, fraud and abuse. The Controller does this by auditing all city government related expenditures (the City also has a Finance Department and Treasurer who collect and audit all City revenues).

The Controller also conducts audits of all City departments and City authorities such as the Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (Annual Report) Urban Redevelopment Authority (URA), Pittsburgh Parking Authority, Pittsburgh Water and Sewer Authority and the Pittsburgh Housing Authority.
jasujazmudzinski
City Council is the legislative branch of government. It carries out duties in accordance with the Home Rule Charter and the laws of the state, and is primarily responsible for making laws which govern the City of Pittsburgh. City Council proposes, debates, and votes on legislation governing and/or affecting the city. This body also approves appointments as provided by the Charter, regulates revenues and expenditures, incurs debt, and approves the final operating and capital budgets for the city. Council is responsible for the introduction of legislation generated by the administrative branch of city government. Council may also introduce legislation generated by individual Council Members or Council as a body.
jasujazmudzinski
About the MBK Initiative
My Brother’s Keeper (MBK) Pittsburgh is an initiative that originated from the Obama administration to address persistent opportunity gaps faced by boys and young men of color to ensure all young people can reach their full potential.

The City of Pittsburgh has embraced former President Barack Obama's call to action for “My Brother's Keeper” with Mayor Ed Gainey implementing a cross-sector alliance with commitments to join the effort in creating a more equitable and inclusive Pittsburgh.

The MBK advisory committee and staff members consistently review demographic, social, economic, and crime data, including numerous community and academic reports to strategize the work of MBK by structuring our community network to meet the needs of every Black man and boy.


MBK Pittsburgh Vision
MBK Pittsburgh seeks to create a region where Black men and boys are safe and free from violence, feel welcome, view themselves in a positive manner, and have equitable access to opportunities that enable them to thrive.

Goals
My Brother's Keeper seeks to address the unique challenges faced by individuals within high- and extreme-need communities by providing a platform for mentorship, educational resources, employment opportunities, and community engagement through six key milestone goals:

All of our children enter school cognitively, physically, socially, and emotionally prepared
All of our children read at grade-level by third grade
All of our young people complete post-secondary education or training
All of our young people graduate from college
All of our youth who have graduated from college or a training program are employed
All of our young people are safe from violent crime, and those who need it, receive the second chance they deserve
Mayor Gainey and his administration are dedicated to improving current conditions within all six milestone goals through partnerships and collaboration to provide wrap-around services and resources for Black men and boys throughout the City of Pittsburgh. Together, we can foster a sense of belonging and support to empower individuals to overcome obstacles and achieve their full potential.

Highlighting Black Men & Boys
MBK spotlights Black men and boys from the City of Pittsburgh for their community service, philanthropy, leadership, innovation, achievement, dedication to public service, civic engagement, environmental stewardship, cultural preservation, and acts of bravery or heroism.
jasujazmudzinski
Pittsburgh Police Mission & Values
Mission Statement
We, the Pittsburgh Police, stand ready to:

Protect human life;
Serve without reservation or favor;
Stand as partners with all;
Help all communities live free from fear.
It is our challenge to provide committed service through honor, integrity, courage, respect, and compassion.

Values
HONOR – We are men and women of principle; we are driven to pursue the hard right, versus the easy wrong.
INTEGRITY – Integrity reflects our values in action. Our actions reflect the Law Enforcement Code of Ethics; we do the right thing without exception, so that our behavior inspires and sustains the confidence of our community.
COURAGE – In valor there is hope. We are undaunted by the challenges before us, resolute in our commitment.
RESPECT – We respect the dignity and worth of all, and treat citizens and colleagues alike with dignity and respect.
COMPASSION – Ours is profession of service. Our compassion binds us to the communities we serve, and inspires us to help others and promote justice.
jasujazmudzinski
In 1873, the Police Badge was designed and officially adopted by the City of Pittsburgh. The badge is a unique design: The crest is from the Coat-of-Arms of William Pitt, the first Earl of Chatham, and the man for whom Pittsburgh is named. The garter around the badge is linked to King George III, the last English ruler of the American colonies. The shield is a circular fighting shield used by 15th century Greek foot soldiers. During the 16th and 17th centuries, the circular shield was used extensively in the British Isles, hence its appearance in Pittsburgh. The Pittsburgh Police Badge with its distinctive design and history is worn with great pride by the men and women of the Pittsburgh Bureau of Police.
The Law Enforcement Officers Memorial, Inc., County of Allegheny, is a nonprofit organization. We are police officers, survivors and private citizens working together to build and maintain a memorial in the City of Pittsburgh, the county seat of Allegheny County. The memorial honors all Law Enforcement Officers who have made the "Supreme Sacrifice." It also honors all law enforcement personnel, living and dead. The Law Enforcement Officers Memorial is located at North Shore and Art Rooney Avenue near Heinz Field.
Pittsburgh Bureau of Police Officers collaborate in addition to their everyday duties and responsibilities to implement and continuously refine distinctive summer camp programing that develops leadership capabilities in each child while promoting diversity and inclusion. Each Officer brings his or her individual professionalism to the children in promotion of a future service career In Public Safety and/or Law Enforcement Profession.
Cops & Kids Summer Camp Program
Cops & Kids Camp 2025 Information
July 28 - August 1
In partnership with Duquesne University, Cops and Kids Camp is a free week-long experience for youth ages 8-12 who reside in the City of Pittsburgh focusing on education, character development, and leadership. Camp counselors are all police officers who are dedicated to building relationships with youth to promote public safety for all. A t-shirt will be provided to all campers.
jasujazmudzinski
It is the mission of the Pittsburgh Bureau of Fire to protect life, property and the environment by providing effective customer and human services related to fire suppression, fire responder medical service, hazardous materials mitigation, emergency management service and domestic preparedness. The Pittsburgh Bureau of Fire encourages all personnel to take a proactive role in reducing the impact from emergencies by providing programs related to public education, risk reduction, fire prevention, community relations, disaster planning and operational training. All services provided to the residents and visitors of the City of Pittsburgh, the County of Allegheny and the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania will be delivered in the most professional manner, to the best of our ability!
jasujazmudzinski
The Bureau of Animal Care & Control serves the residents of the City of Pittsburgh by providing care, control and resolution to situations dealing with domestic animals and wildlife.
Love Your Wild Neighbor Public Service Announcement Video
Baby Fawns Public Service Announcement Video
Coyotes Public Service Announcement Video
Love Dogs & Cats Public Service Announcement Video
Description of Services
The Bureau of Animal Care & Control provides assistance to Bureaus within the Department of Public Safety, other City Departments and the Allegheny County Health Department in situations involving animals, both domestic and wild. The Bureau enforces City and State codes dealing with animals; issues citations and appears in court; helps to keep our City’s parks animal-nuisance free; works with non-profit animal shelters; provides consultation to other municipalities concerning animal issues; and assists the Pennsylvania Game Commission in tracking the rabies virus.

Animal Care & Control Officers capture stray animals, assist in pet/owner recovery, resolve neighbor disputes over animals, assist the elderly and physically-challenged with animal concerns, advise and teach residents of their responsibility as pet owners, advise non-pet owners of their rights, and assist in the removal of nuisance wildlife. Nuisance wildlife is defined as wildlife that causes, or is about to cause, property damage or that presents a threat to the health or safety of the community by means of disease transmission or direct attacks. The Bureau also quarantines animals, provides removal of deceased animals, and assists police and the District Attorney's office with humane investigations.

Although Animal Care & Control encourages responsible pet/companion ownership there are still over 1,300 dogs and cats picked up yearly. Many are reunited with their homes through a partnership the City has with a local animal shelter.

Due to the wooded mountainous geography of our City, residents share common areas with a host of wildlife (skunks, raccoons, ground hogs, foxes, coyotes, deer, turkeys, etc.) Learn more about how to share space with wildlife by visiting our Living with Wild Life page.

The City offers 24 hour service. The Animal Care & Control office hours are Monday through Friday, 7 a.m. to 3 p.m. Please visit our Contact Us page.

Operations continue from 3 p.m. to 11 p.m. Monday through Friday. Saturdays and Sundays operations are from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m, and on holidays, from 8 am to 4 pm. All "after hour" operations are for any emergency that a resident may have. Call the after-hours number at 412-255-2935.

Responsible pet owners need to know that along with the obligation to properly feed, shelter, and care for a pet, there are laws (ordinances) to protect the animal, the pet owner, and the community.

"Owner" includes every person who keeps or shelters and every person who allows an animal to be on their property (land or house) which is occupied by him or her. This means that if you are in possession of an animal, whether you own it or not - you're responsible for its care, behavior, and welfare.

 Contact and Hours
The City offers 24 hour service. The Animal Care & Control office hours are Monday through Friday, 7 a.m. to 3 p.m. Please visit our Contact Us page.
Operations continue from 3 p.m. to 11 p.m. Monday through Friday. Saturdays and Sundays operations are from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m, and on holidays, from 8 am to 4 pm. All "after hour" operations are for any emergency that a resident may have. Call the after-hours number at 412-255-2935.
jasujazmudzinski