Established by five intrepid women in 1939, Pittsburgh Opera is viewed as one of the most vibrant opera organizations in the U.S., with a rich artistic tradition, outstanding educational programs, an acclaimed artist training program, and a progressive outlook toward the future. 
We invite everyone to learn more about our Mission & History as well as our Inclusion, Diversity, Equity, and Accessibility (IDEA) initiatives. 
Pittsburgh Opera, Inc., is a Level II member of Opera America and a constituent organization of the Pittsburgh Cultural Trust. We are a tax exempt 501(c)(3) organization and an Equal Opportunity Employer.
Pittsburgh Opera is rated Platinum, their highest rating, by industry-leading Guidestar, an information service specializing in reporting on U.S. nonprofit companies. 
Pittsburgh Opera has been evaluated by Charity Navigator, the world’s largest and most trusted nonprofit evaluator, and earned a Four-Star Rating. This is the highest possible rating on Charity Navigator. Charity Navigator’s third-party accreditation validates our organization’s operational excellence.
jasujazmudzinski

Pittsburgh Opera enriches Pittsburgh and the tri-state area and draws national and international attention to the region by:
Creating live opera at the highest standards of artistic excellence
Making opera accessible to a diverse audience
Developing young singers into tomorrow’s artists
Ensuring the future through responsible fiscal management
The current leader of Pittsburgh Opera is Christopher Hahn, who became Artistic Director in 2000 and General Director in 2008. During his tenure he has considerably expanded the company’s repertoire to include Baroque and many contemporary works, and he has vigorously upheld Pittsburgh Opera’s high standards of management and artistic excellence. He has expanded the Resident Artist Program to include two annual productions, both of which are offered as part of the full subscription series. He led the move to Bitz Opera Factory in the historic George Westinghouse Air Brake Factory at 2425 Liberty Avenue, in Pittsburgh’s Strip District, and developed a range of audience and community programs that take place there.
Pittsburgh Opera's current Music Director, Antony Walker, was appointed in 2005 and has brought an engaged and highly informed leadership to the company’s musical forces as well as developing a music staff of note.
jasujazmudzinski

Pittsburgh Opera History
Our Beginnings 
Founded in 1939 by five intrepid women who belonged to Pittsburgh’s Tuesday Musical Club (pianist Virginia C. Byerly; contralto Carolyn Hunt Mahaffey; Priscilla W. Collins; Ruby N. Wickersham; and Marie M. Pease), these Founding Five established The Pittsburgh Opera Society, which would become the seventh-oldest opera company in the United States.
The first production, in March 1940 at Carnegie Music Hall, was The Tales of Hoffmann, with Mahaffey as Nicklausse. The company’s first conductor, Richard Karp of Vienna, led Pittsburgh Opera for nearly 40 years and oversaw the company’s move to Heinz Hall in 1971.
In 1983, Tito Capobianco, a stage director and prominent figure at New York City Opera, became Pittsburgh Opera’s General Director. Capobianco molded the Opera into an influential national company and a steward of cultural life in Pittsburgh. Under his direction, the Opera established its own orchestra, pioneered the use of supertitles, formed the Resident Artists Program and dramatically increased the region's audience for opera.
Mark Weinstein’s appointment as General Director in 1997 marked another milestone in the company’s growth. Weinstein, pursued rigorous financial management and long-range strategic planning. He increased the company’s assets threefold and cemented the Opera’s reputation as a leader in financial management in the region.
Weinstein initiated the Artistic Excellence Project, and raised major funds which led to the appointment of Christopher Hahn as Artistic Director in 2000 and John Mauceri as Music Director in 2001.
Our New Home
In 2008 Pittsburgh Opera moved to its current and permanent home in the Strip District, finally achieving the space to house the resources needed to better prepare for performances at the Benedum, while opening new ways for the community to experience all the artistry that is part of opera. In an effort to maintain the Company’s mission to enrich Pittsburgh and the tri-state area, the Opera has committed to the use of sustainable methods in the renovation and maintenance of the Bitz Opera Factory, obtaining a Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) Operations and Maintenance Silver Certification in June 2011.
In addition to its mainstage productions, Pittsburgh Opera produces a range of programs to engage and enrich the community, with more than 15,000 students, families and educators participating in its educational events annually. The internationally-renowned Pittsburgh Opera Resident Artist Program is among the country’s top five training centers for rising opera stars and the newly designed administrative and rehearsal space provides for events ranging from free community Song Shop Concerts to concert recitals by world-class opera singers.
Pittsburgh Opera’s long-standing commitment to artistic excellence, responsible fiscal management and good neighborship will continue to prove a valuable asset to the city of Pittsburgh and the surrounding region for years to come.
jasujazmudzinski

Pittsburgh Opera Vision
Continuing a Legacy of Inclusion with a Future-Focused Vision
Pittsburgh Opera has long been committed to enriching our region through live, world-class opera that is accessible, engaging, and reflective of our community. In keeping with this legacy—and with an eye toward the future—we are proud to continue and elevate this important, holistic work.
‘Strategic Impact and Engagement’ supports our values by linking them directly to strategic initiatives throughout Pittsburgh Opera and is an evolution in how we express and integrate them through all we do. It also underscores our commitment to embedding people-centered values—such as diverse perspectives and community collaboration—into every facet of our organization, from our programming, to those people and organizations whom we work with, to the audience experience at our events and performances.
This work is deeply active and ongoing:
We use robust community and strategic partnerships to stay honest and responsive to what our community most needs.
We offer a wide range of programs and events that are educational, thought-provoking, experiential, and fun.
We invest in long-term collaborations that enrich our work and deepen our relationships.
We foster an inclusive internal environment that supports our staff, board, and artists—centering belonging, transparency, and collaborative thinking.
By aligning this work closely with our organizational strategy, we ensure that these values are not siloed or separate, but integral to Pittsburgh Opera’s artistic and administrative excellence. Strategic Impact and Engagement reinforces our belief that the full richness of opera can only be realized when all voices are welcomed, respected, and represented.
We are rooted in our commitment to reflect these principles in our programming, leadership, teams, and access efforts. We aim to reflect resilience, long-term integration, and a bold reaffirmation of our mission to bring opera to all—now and into the future.
jasujazmudzinski

Pittsburgh Opera Workshops for Educators
The Pittsburgh Opera's signature educator program is a unique, fun, and stimulating professional learning opportunity for teachers of all grade levels in all content areas.
Workshop topics include the five 2025–2026 season operas plus additional arts integration materials so that teachers have additional resources to use in their classes. Each workshop is recorded so that participants can attend live or at a later time. We include live presentations and/or performances by guest artists. And, we provide some of the workshop materials in advance for participants to explore at their convenience, so the actual “live” workshop time is short and engaging. We offer a total of six 1.5 hour workshops on Saturday mornings from 10:30 am–12:00 pm via Zoom, with a one hour networking time afterwards, plus one in-person set tour at the Bitz Opera Factory. 
There is no cost to attend the workshop. Pre-registration is required a week in advance by emailing: megan@pittsburghopera.org
2025-26 WORKSHOP FOR EDUCATORS
slide-plusslide-minus
SEASON THEME: Technical Aspects of Opera Production 
ZOOM:
#1      September 27, 2025      La bohème
#2      November 1, 2025         Fellow Travelers
#3      December 6, 2025         Technical Aspects of Opera Production
#4      January 10, 2026           Curlew River
#5      February 14, 2026         Time to Act 
#6      March 28, 2026              Falstaff
 IN PERSON:
#7      Sunday, April 12, 2026    Falstaff Set Tour workshop                
OPERA ACADEMY
slide-plusslide-minus
A stimulating and intensive program, Opera Academy is a year-long professional learning experience designed to immerse educators into the world of opera. Teachers from all grades and content areas develop lessons to connect the arts to other academic areas and prepare students to attend an opera performance. Opera Academy members receive a full season subscription, seven workshops, and a student performance or Opera Trunk presentation. In return, Opera Academy members document how they use opera in their classes.
jasujazmudzinski

Pittsburgh Opera provides exciting opportunities for students to learn more about opera.
Each year, Pittsburgh Opera produces a special Student Matinee attended by 2,500+ school students grades 3–12. For our 2025–26 season, our Student Matinee is of Falstaff. (See below for more information.)
For information of how you might sponsor a Student Matinee production, please email us.
2026 STUDENT MATINEE
slide-plusslide-minus
falstaff-hero
Student Matinee for Grades 3–12: Falstaff
Thursday, April 30, 2026    10:30 am–1:00 pm at the Benedum Center
Sung in Italian with English texts projected above the stage.
Download our Student Matinee Reservation Form.
Adapted from Shakespeare plays, Falstaff is full of merriment and mischief! Beloved buffoon Sir John Falstaff has fallen on hard times. But being a ladies’ man (or so he’d like to think), he schemes to cash in on his wit and charm by wooing the wealthy wives of Windsor, Alice Ford and Meg Page. When they uncover that he has sent them both identical love letters, they hatch a plan of their own to teach Falstaff a lesson he won’t soon forget! 
Students will enjoy a complete mainstage performance of Verdi’s comedy with full orchestra, top-quality singers, and colorful production elements. Falstaff provides rich learning opportunities about music, history, and Shakespeare.
Attend the prerequisite workshop to receive  extensive education materials, including a Study Guide, Lesson Ideas, PowerPoints, and an Arts Discovery Packet.
jasujazmudzinski

Hailed as one of the country's leading training programs for young artists, Pittsburgh Opera’s Resident Artist Program provides professional development during a two-year session.
The Program
Each year, exceptional young singers are selected by audition from more than 800 applicants.
While honing their vocal skills and expanding their repertoire, Resident Artist Singers study languages, diction, movement, and acting. Performance opportunities include principal roles in fully-staged Resident Artist productions, comprimario roles and principal cover roles in Pittsburgh Opera mainstage productions.
The Resident Artist Stage Director serves as Director for a resident artist production, Assistant Director for all mainstage operas, and stages Song Shop Concerts and other events throughout the season.
The Resident Artist Pianist serves as a rehearsal pianist, orchestra pit pianist for select productions, accompanies community engagement events, and receives invaluable mentorship from Pittsburgh Opera’s Music Director and Music Staff.
jasujazmudzinski

Pittsburgh Opera Leadership
OFFICERS
slide-plusslide-minus
Michele Fabrizi
Chair
Eugene M. Welsh
President
H. Woodruff Turner, Esq.
Treasurer
Alice Gelormino
Secretary
Christopher Hahn
General Director
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
slide-plusslide-minus
François J. Bitz
Kaitlyn Brennan, Ph.D.
Heather Chronis Danek
Georg P. Ettstaller
Hilda Pang Fu
Karen Roche Galey, M.D.
Alexandra M. Good, Esq.
Thomas James III, M.D.
Clyde B. Jones, III
Arthur J. Kerr, Jr.
Richard LeBeau
Jane Love
William Meehan, Jr.
Abby Morrison
Richard Pagliari
Gabriela A. Porges
Oksana Prysyazhnyuk
Robin Randall
Christian Romano
Dominic Rupprecht, Esq.
Sharon E. Sclabassi, Ph.D.
Jonnet Solomon
Janet E. Squires, M.D.
John Tippins
EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE
slide-plusslide-minus
Lisa M. Cibik, M.D.
Virginia DiPucci
Jean Anne Hattler, Ph.D.
Robert A. James
Cindy Kerr
Michael Lancet#
Eugene Myers, M.D.
Demetrios T. Patrinos
Diana Reid
Steven D. Seibert
Kristen Taucher +
John E. Traina
Nancy Traina 
ADVISORY BOARD
slide-plusslide-minus
Jean Anne Hattler, Ph.D. - Chair
Marianne Cornetti
Melanie Crockard
Franklin H. Kelly
Marco Leal
Susan Loutsion
Jill M. Ondos
Ana Luisa Palminha
Mary Anne Papale
Diana Reid
David Savard
Robert J. Sclabassi, M.D.
Felicia Snead, M.D.
EMERITUS BOARD MEMBERS
slide-plusslide-minus
James R. Agras
Marilyn Bruschi*
Thomas H. O’Brien
John E. Traina 
*deceased
jasujazmudzinski

Pittsburgh Opera Staff
To reach a Pittsburgh Opera staff member by phone, call 412-281-0912 and dial the extension after their name unless otherwise indicated. To send a direct e-mail to any staff member on this list, simply click the staff member's name. 

LEADERSHIP
slide-plusslide-minus
Christopher Hahn, General Director • 261. Read Christopher's bio. 

Antony Walker, Music Director • 263. Read Antony's bio.

ADMINISTRATION
slide-plusslide-minus
Kristin N. Gatch, Assistant to the General Director and Systems and Research Manager • 234

Susan Solito, Office Manager and Ticketing Associate • 100

ARTISTIC
slide-plusslide-minus
Robert Boldin, Director of Artistic Operations • 255

Glenn Lewis, Head of Music • 258

Kristen Martin, Manager of Artistic Administration • 219

Matthew Hrdlicka, Artistic Coordinator • 247

Mark Trawka, Director of Musical Studies and Chorus Master • 238

James Lesniak, Associate Coach and Pianist • 224

DEVELOPMENT
slide-plusslide-minus
Rachel Kisic, Director of Development • 226

Jennifer Shorstein Clark, Senior Manager of Individual Giving • 259

Torrance Gricks, Manager of Corporate Development & Events Fundraising • 225

Julia Leyzarovich, Manager of Institutional Giving • 204

Katie Sabo, Annual Fund Coordinator • 263

Amanda Frampton, Donor Relations Associate • 231

EDUCATION
slide-plusslide-minus
Marilyn Michalka Egan, Ph.D., Director of Education • 242

FINANCE
slide-plusslide-minus
Bob Rak, Managing Director • 211

Howard Austin, Finance Manager and Human Resources • 232

MARKETING
slide-plusslide-minus
Christian D. Cox, Director of Marketing and Communications • 217

Madison Lescallette, Manager of Audience Services • 216

Obie Allard, Manager of Graphic Design • 262

Ayne Terceira, Manager of Digital Marketing • 222

Wendy Parkulo, Manager of Group Sales and Community Initiatives • 213

STRATEGIC IMPACT AND ENGAGEMENT
slide-plusslide-minus
Rebekah Diaz, Director of Strategic Impact and Engagement • 256

PRODUCTION
slide-plusslide-minus
Steven Grair, Director of Production • 221

Sarah Cowing, Production Coordinator • 257

Jacob Currence, Costume Director • 233

Sean E. West, Head Carpenter • 246

MUSIC LIBRARY
slide-plusslide-minus
Ellie Cameron, Orchestra Librarian • 220
jasujazmudzinski

Pittsburgh Opera Orchestra
The Pittsburgh Opera Orchestra is central to the production of each opera we put on stage. Working with Music Director Antony Walker, the orchestra consistently garners enthusiastic reviews and is acclaimed for its excellence.  

Orchestra musicians employed by Pittsburgh Opera are members of the Pittsburgh Musician’s Union, Local #60-471, of the American Federation of Musicians of the United States and Canada.

Click each section of the orchestra below to show the personnel. 

STRINGS
slide-plusslide-minus
Violin
Charles Stegeman, Concertmaster
Rachel Stegeman, Assistant Concertmaster
Anne Jackovic Moskal, Principal Violin II
Joshua Huang, Assistant Principal Violin II
Jennifer Madge    
Juan C. Jaramillo    
MaryBeth Schotting    
Sara Schaft    
Kate Massagli Black    
Rochelle Agnew    
Maureen Conlon Gutierrez    
Gabrielle Faetini     
Sean Elliott    

Viola
Jennifer Gerhard Mangone, Principal Viola
Louise Farbman, Assistant Principal Viola
John McCarthy    
Rebecca Rothermel    
Johann Diaz

Cello 
Kathleen Melucci, Principal Cello
Jonathan Tortolano, Assistant Principal Cello
Paula Tuttle    
Joseph A Biskoff, Jr    
Elisa Kohanski    

Bass
Jeffrey T. Mangone Sr, Principal Double Bass
Andrew Kohn, Assistant Principal Double Bass
Robert J Skavronski     
J. Michael Priester
WOODWINDS
slide-plusslide-minus
Flute
Barbara O'Brien, Principal Flute
Julie McGough     

Oboe
Robert Driscoll, Jr. , Principal Oboe
Cynthia Anderson    

Clarinet
Vacant, Principal Clarinet
Alix Reinhardt    

Bassoon
Linda Morton Fisher, Principal Bassoon
Don Hollis    

BRASS
slide-plusslide-minus
Horn
Evan Geiger, Principal Horn
Sheryl Hadeka      
Emerson Miller    

Trumpet
Christopher Wilson, Principal Trumpet
Karen Lee Sloneker    
David Anderson    

Trombone
Sebastian Vera, Principal Trombone
Taylor Jones    
Glenn L. Wayland Sr.    

Tuba
Philip VanOuse, Principal Tuba

HARP
slide-plusslide-minus
Harp
Nuiko Wadden, Principal Harp

TIMPANI
slide-plusslide-minus
Timpani
Vacant, Principal Timpani

PERCUSSION
slide-plusslide-minus
Percussion
Jan Fung, Principal Percussion

LIBRARY & PERSONNEL MANAGER
slide-plusslide-minus
Librarian
Eleanor Cameron

Personnel Manager
Kristen Martin
jasujazmudzinski

Pittsburgh Opera Chorus
The Pittsburgh Opera Chorus adds an unmistakable presence to every opera in which they appear.

Choristers employed by Pittsburgh Opera are members of the American Guild of Musical Artists.

Click each section of the chorus below to meet our Pittsburgh Opera choisters!

La traviata, 2011
La traviata, 2011

The Magic Flute, 2013
The Magic Flute, 2013

The Elixir of Love, 2007
The Elixir of Love, 2007

Dialogues of the Carmelites, 2011
Dialogues of the Carmelites, 2011

Samson & Dalila, 2008
Samson & Dalila, 2008

Turandot, 2011
Turandot, 2011

Nabucco, 2015
Nabucco, 2015

Carmen, 2009
Carmen, 2009

La traviata, 2011
La traviata, 2011

The Magic Flute, 2013
The Magic Flute, 2013

Turandot, 2011
Nabucco, 2015
Carmen, 2009
La traviata, 2011
The Magic Flute, 2013
The Elixir of Love, 2007
Dialogues of the Carmelites, 2011
Samson & Dalila, 2008
Turandot, 2011
Nabucco, 2015
Carmen, 2009
La traviata, 2011
The Magic Flute, 2013
The Elixir of Love, 2007
Dialogues of the Carmelites, 2011
Samson & Dalila, 2008
SOPRANO
slide-plusslide-minus
Lilly Abreu
Charlene Canty
Adrianna Cleveland
Betsy D'Emidio
Stacey Brett Davern
Meghan DeWald
Kathryn Copeland Donaldson
Tanying Dong
Judith Jenkins
Katie Manukyan
Anna Lahti
Gail Novak Mosites
Sasha Piastro-Tedford
Anastasia Robinson
Katy Shackleton-Williams
Emily Tiberi

ALTO
slide-plusslide-minus
Sarah Austin
Loghan Bazan
Thespina Christulides
Brianna  Crawford
Jolanta Doherty
Patricia Donohue
Kimberly Anne Laret
Christina McCann
Barbara McDonough
Veronika Schmidt
Kathryn Ambrose Sereno
Denise Sheffey-Powell 
Valery Staskey
Jenifer Weber

TENOR
slide-plusslide-minus
William Andrews
Andrew Bloomgarden
William Buchanan
Jeffrey Gross
Benjamin Hayes
David Knouse
Jeffrey Link
Richard Mikol
George Milosh
David Scoville
John Sereno
Logan Williams
Rich Williams
Paul Yeater

BASS
slide-plusslide-minus
Peter Bianchi
Jesse Davis
Brian Doherty
Sean Donaldson
Eric Garber
Caleb Hixon
Hayden Keefer
Nicholas Kochanov
Christopher Laret
Tim Marquette
Justin Massetto
J. Patrick McGill
Franklin Mosley
Joshua Mulkey
Jordan Rininger
jasujazmudzinski

In April 2008, Pittsburgh Opera moved into its new home at 2425 Liberty Avenue in the Strip District. The building not only has a deep connection to Pittsburgh’s storied past – it was built as George Westinghouse’s original air brake factory in 1869 – but gives Pittsburgh Opera a bright future.

In 2021, in grateful recognition of Francois Bitz's exceptional generosity and long affiliation with the company, Pittsburgh Opera was proud to re-name its headquarters in the Strip District, the Bitz Opera Factory.

At 45,000 square feet, the $8 million project features offices, 4,000 square feet of rehearsal spaces, costume, wig, and makeup shops, and a kitchen, meeting the “multimedia” requirements of opera. The renovation resulted in Silver-level LEED certification in the Operations and Maintenance category in June 2011, and incorporates the site’s exposed brick interiors, 150 historically-accurate windows and original metal fire safes.

Pittsburgh Opera’s building was designed by IKM. A new wrap-around metal, neon, and LEED sign was designed by Bill Kolano. Contractor is Massaro Corporation.
jasujazmudzinski
About City Planning
The Department of City Planning works with partners to plan and deliver a vision for the City’s future grounded in a Just Transition

We work to create and maintain an orderly, timely, environmentally-sustainable, and consistent approach to land use and development within the City. To achieve this end, Planning works with communities, civic organizations and public entities to develop long-term plans to sustain and revitalize a thriving city of neighborhoods for the people who live, work, learn and visit here.


(show below)
Mission
(hide below)
The Department of City Planning is a convener of residents, communities, civic organizations, commissions, and public entities, and works with these partners to plan and deliver a vision for the City’s future grounded in a Just Transition. The Department works at the intersection of climate change, racial justice, and social equity to ensure healthy, safe and vibrant neighborhoods for all residents.

Because the built environment plays a vital role in the lives of Pittsburgh residents, City Planning incorporates policies and activities that promote sustainability, climate resilience, design justice, arts and culture, housing affordability and economic opportunity in the development and implementation of the City’s Comprehensive Plan, neighborhood plans, land use policies, zoning regulations, approval of development projects, and coordination of community development programs and partnerships.

The Department is committed to focusing core planning activities to prioritize neighborhoods that have been harmed by past planning policies and practices which have contributed to existing racial and economic inequities throughout the city. This effort requires deeper engagement and additional resources in the development of plans and policies, working to remove barriers to the Department’s services, and by recognizing a more holistic set of metrics to advance the wellbeing of our diverse communities.

The Department of City Planning recognizes the power of residents to transform their neighborhoods and calls on us to use that power to shape the future of Pittsburgh.

(show below)
Integrated Planning Division
(hide below)
The Integrated Planning division manages data, develops plans, and informs policies related to food access, vacant land, housing, mobility, and economic opportunity.

The Integrated Planning division leads research, special initiatives, and cross-agency collaborations focused on integrating strategic policy areas that ensure holistic outcomes with a focus on communities who have been historically under-served and marginalized by planning in Pittsburgh. The division produces trends analyses and special “future of cities” reports and convenings for a citywide audience. Integrated Planning also partners with City’s innovation-centric departments and units to establish shared goals for innovation-focused partnerships and pilots.

(show below)
Public Realm Division
(hide below)
The Public Realm division proactively engages with and supports communities who face the steepest challenges in accessing civic design opportunities, historic preservation resources, and public art initiatives.

The Public Realm division leads development and implementation of policies, programs, and partnerships that make visible in the City’s public realm the art, cultures, traditions, and histories of Pittsburgh’s diverse communities. The division achieves this by building their awareness and capacity to participate, including their ability to incorporate into neighborhood plans and the City’s Comprehensive Plan strategies that make Pittsburgh a place where every community belongs. The Public Realm division ensures the Comprehensive Plan informs updates to citywide urban design guidelines. The division is responsible for staffing the Historic Review Commission, Public Art and Civic Design Commission, and the Contextual Design Advisory Panel.

 

(show below)
Strategic Planning Division
(hide below)
Strategic Planning is responsible for supporting residents — particularly historically marginalized communities— in understanding the tools at their disposal to play meaningful roles in the planning and implementation of holistic policies, programs, and partnerships.

The Strategic Planning division leads coordination and development of the City’s Comprehensive Plan –a resource that establishes a shared vision and roadmap among communities, civic organizations, and public entities–to steer the physical, environmental, and economic transformation of Pittsburgh and its neighborhoods towards a sustainable community and inclusive economy.

(show below)
Sustainability & Resilience Division
(hide below)
Sustainability and Resilience advances Pittsburgh’s vision for environmental protection, climate change mitigation, adaptation, and strategies to address the impacts of climate hazards on vulnerable residents and communities.

The Sustainability and Resilience division leads interdepartmental coordination and implementation of the City’s Climate Action Plan. The division oversees relevant compliance with climate and environmental regulation and codes, including developing and maintaining performance standards. Sustainability and Resilience partners with other public entities to incorporate high performance standards for City operations. The division also collaborates with residents to inform about innovative climate investments across energy, waste, storm water, and parks and open space that are incorporated into neighborhood plans and the City’s Comprehensive Plan. Sustainability and Resilience supports the capacity of community-based organizations in Pittsburgh’s environmental justice communities to advance climate goals, access historic federal climate investments, steer the equitable distribution of vital infrastructure improvements, and minimize unwanted burdens in those communities.

 

 

(show below)
Zoning & Development Review Division
(hide below)
Zoning and Development Review is responsible for facilitating an understanding of the land use and regulatory needs of communities that have been historically harmed by past planning actions.

The division leads development and management of land use policies to align with the City’s goals of catalyzing more affordable, inclusive, resilient, and vibrant neighborhoods. Zoning and Development Review is responsible for facilitating an understanding of the land use and regulatory needs of communities that have been historically harmed by past planning actions. The Division promotes high quality, sustainable, and efficient development by coordinating regulatory bodies to oversee a consistent, transparent, and predictable regulatory environment and customer service experience. Zoning and Development Review administers the City’s zoning code and supports development review, including staffing the Planning Commission and Zoning Board of Adjustment.

Office of Director Dr. Jamil Bey
412-255-2219
cityplanning@pittsburghpa.gov

Public Art & Civic Design Commission
412-255-2219
pacd@pittsburghpa.gov

Historic Review Commission
412-255-2219
historicreview@pittsburghpa.gov

Zoning & Development Review Division
412-255-2241
zoning@pittsburghpa.gov

Planning Commission
412-255-2241
planningcommission@pittsburghpa.gov

Zoning Board of Adjustment
412-255-2241
zoningboard@pittsburghpa.gov
jasujazmudzinski
Historic Preservation Program
Pittsburgh's cultural heritage is the City's legacy, formed by its people, place, neighborhoods, buildings, landscapes, objects, and stories -- everything that helped to shape Pittsburgh, literally and figuratively, from the beginning. Cultural and historic resources have a significant impact on Pittsburgh's character. They are valuable, non-replaceable assets that contribute to a unique and distinct sense of place.

City Planning's Historic Preservation work is guided by PreservePGH, the Pittsburgh Cultural Heritage Plan, completed in 2012. PreservePGH's vision statement:

In the 21st century, Pittsburgh's distinct character and culture will be preserved in ways that contribute to a high quality of life. The City will offer a balance of tradition and innovation, preservation and new construction, environmental sensitivity and continued use of resources. Pittsburgh's place in history will be admired and reflected for centuries to come - in the City's historic structures - in the waters of the three rivers - in the materials of modern buildings - in the hearts and minds of all Pittsburghers.
jasujazmudzinski
Public Art Projects
Installations of public art are created each year through the City's Percent For Art budget, grant-funded programs, and community-led initiatives. Click a project below to see what projects are happening in your neighborhood, learn how you can provide input, and stay up-to-date on future projects happening throughout the city.

Chartiers Spray Park
A mural by Suphitsara Buttra on the splash pad of the newly renovated Chartiers Playground Spray Park

Davis Avenue Bridge
Artwork by Lori Hepner is planned for the new Davis Avenue Bridge in the Brighton Heights neighborhood.

Homewood Park
New artwork will accompany the renovation of Homewood Park by artists Camerin Nesbit, Juliandra Jones, Mikael Owunna, and Najja Moon.

South Side Park
Cloud Well, a new work of art by artist Carin Mincemoyer, will accompany the phase one renovation of South Side Park.

Percent for Art
The Percent For Art Program was adopted by Pittsburgh city ordinance in 1977. Under this legislation, 1% of municipal construction or major renovation budgets is dedicated to the inclusion of public art. While this funding allocation was overlooked for many years by previous administrations, the City's Planning Department have reinvigorated the program, resulting in a range of new works of public art on city property, most commonly in public parks.

Current Projects
Beechview Percent for Art
A public art project is currently being planned for Beechview. This project will be funded by the City's Percent For Art program.

Project updates and opportunities for engagement will be posted to this page as the project develops.

Hill District Percent for Art
A public art project is currently being planned for the Hill District. This project will be funded by the City's Percent For Art program.

Project updates and opportunities for engagement will be posted to this page as the project develops.

Hazelwood Percent for Art
A public art project is currently being planned for Hazelwood. This project will be funded by the City's Percent For Art program.

Project updates and opportunities for engagement will be posted to this page as the project develops.

Manchester Percent for Art
A public art project is currently being planned for Manchester. This project will be funded by the City's Percent For Art program.

Project updates and opportunities for engagement will be posted to this page as the project develops.

University Line Percent for Art
A site-responsive public art project is currently being developed along the 7.1-mile University Line corridor, connecting Downtown, Uptown, and Oakland. Marsha will work closely with the project team to design impactful, long-lasting enhancements that reflect the culture, history, and identity of the communities along the route!
jasujazmudzinski
Riverbank Conditions Assessment and Best Practices Study
Concerned by the number of landslides happening throughout the city, Pittsburgh’s Department of City Planning partnered with the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (USACE) Pittsburgh District to assess the conditions of riverbanks along the Allegheny, Monongahela, and Ohio Rivers. The partnership’s objectives were to assess and map the current condition of approximately 43 miles of riverbank and develop an applied best practices document to guide future remediation of unstable riverbanks.

About the Riverbank Stability Survey
The team first developed evaluation criteria based on observable characteristics of the Pittsburgh Pool’s riverbanks. Attributes included:

Bank material and condition
Slope
The presence and type of vegetation
Extent of impervious surfaces within the riparian area
Presence and/or extent of existing features that could further contribute to bank instability (ex, existing erosion or undercutting, man made structures)
Once these criteria were established, the USACE spent several days sailing the rivers to visually assess the banks. The assessment was done on all banks within Pittsburgh City limits, and on some neighboring municipalities’ banks.

The USACE created an interactive map with the survey findings.

Mapping Tool

Other features included on the map are the route of the survey boat, photos of points along the riverbank, location of ALCOSAN culvert and outlet locations, bicycle trails, amount of impervious surface within 75 feet of the riverbank, and zoning categories.

They also created a decision tree structure to define and assign bank conditions scores to the various riverbank typologies.

Image: Decision tree used to define and assign bank condition scores to naturalized riverbank typologies
Image Caption: Decision tree used to define and assign bank condition scores to naturalized riverbank typologies. Missing typologies and associated condition scores indicate typologies that were not encountered within the study area.

The final assessment results were based on material type, material condition, slope, observed typology, and riverbank condition.

About the Riverbank Best Practices Study
Once the team had categorized riverbank typologies, the USACE used the results to organize a Best Practices Guide, designed to assist with identifying the most effective riverbank stabilization and rehabilitation techniques for each riverbank typology. The Department of City Planning, Riverlife, and the USACE Pittsburgh District compiled pertinent existing reports and studies regarding Pittsburgh riverbank and riparian ecology, and best practices for riverbank rehabilitation and stabilization for urban riverbanks.

Riverbank stabilization approaches included in the report fall within the broad categories of bioengineering, erosion and sediment control, stormwater management, and geotechnical techniques.

After a description of the recommended approaches, the utilizes a series of tables to organize recommended stabilization techniques by final riverbank condition categories.
jasujazmudzinski
Pittsburgh Department of Mobility and Infrastructure
Our Mission
Provide the physical mobility necessary to support the social and economic mobility of the people of Pittsburgh through the management, design, improvement, and operation of the public right of way.

What We Do
The Department is responsible for the transportation of people and goods throughout the City of Pittsburgh, and for managing the operation of and access to the public right-of-way (the sidewalks, curbs, streets, and bridges that make up our network).

City's Mobility Principles
No one dies or is seriously injured traveling on city streets.
Every household in Pittsburgh can access fresh fruits and vegetables within 20 minutes travel of home, without the requirement of a private vehicle.
All trips less than 1 mile are easily and enjoyably achieved by non-vehicle travel.
No household must spend more than 45% of household income to satisfy basic housing, transportation and energy needs.
The design, maintenance and operation of city streets reflects the values of our community.
Research finds that access to transportation is the factor most likely to influence household economic success. With this in mind, the mission of the Department of Mobility and Infrastructure is to provide the transportation mobility essential to the economic mobility of all Pittsburghers.
jasujazmudzinski
Digital Equity In Pittsburgh
Mayor Ed Gainey's administration knows that there is a gap between the haves and have nots when it comes to access, availability, services and skills training. These four areas have been identified in the text of the Pittsburgh Digital Equity Coalition's Community Strategic Plan. Local and national surveys demonstrate that affordability is the biggest reason households do not subscribe to broadband (high-speed internet), and a lack of understanding for how to use a computer is a major contributing factor. Additionally, a 2022 Southwestern Pennsylvania Commission report on Equitable Broadband Access indicates that Seniors, Families with K-12 students, and Black citizens are disproportionately disconnected, and efforts should be taken to help these key populations.
jasujazmudzinski
What is Beacon?
(hide below)
The new and improved Beacon is a secure, user-friendly, web-based eProcurement system for the City of Pittsburgh. The system will help to streamline procurement processes as well as offer many new features and expanded services, including:

Business opportunities will be posted to a consolidated bid board where you can view and respond
Automatic email notification of business opportunities
Ability to electronically submit bids or proposals
Enhanced self-service vendor registration in a "one-stop shop”
(show below)
What are the benefits?
(hide below)
Free online access to information and increased visibility of business opportunities
Free registration for vendors and needing to register only once for multiple local agencies
Convenient, free online bidding
Free automated email notifications of new bid opportunities
Single access point to City of Pittsburgh/local agency bids
(show below)
Should I be registered?
(hide below)
Yes. All previous vendors who sell products and/or services to the City of Pittsburgh and other local agencies will need to re-register with through this site to begin bidding on opportunities
All new vendors that wish to bid on future opportunities will need to register as well. No awards can be made without a vendor registration profile set up
Registering in the new system is important so you don’t miss receiving bid opportunity notifications
(show below)
Where do I find City of Pittsburgh and other agency opportunities?
(hide below)
Go to the Bid Opportunities tab

(show below)
Who do I contact if I have issues with Vendor Registration, Login or Password?
(hide below)
Please contact procurement-support@opengov.com for support regarding these topics.

(show below)
Who do I contact if I have issues outside of Vendor Registration and Vendor Passwords?
(hide below)
Please contact Vendors@pittsburghpa.gov for all other questions.

(show below)
I have completed the Vendor Registration. How do I manage my Vendor Profile?
(hide below)
Vendors have access to login and manage their vendor profiles. Once you login, click on the company name with the drop down arrow. Click My Account. Vendors are expected to keep the most up to date contact information with a correct email address for solicitation notifications.

(show below)
Now that I have registered on Beacon, how do I submit a bid for open solicitations?
(hide below)
Once vendors register, they can log in and click on the "Need Help" drop down and click "Online Help". This page has video tutorials and instructions on how to submit bids.
jasujazmudzinski
PGH Lab is a six-month partnership program that connects local businesses with City of Pittsburgh departments to pilot innovative solutions.

Our program helps businesses grow while enhancing city services. We aim to make Pittsburgh more efficient, transparent, sustainable, and inclusive — one pilot at a time.
How it Works
Apply – Startups submit an application detailing their solution and how it aligns with the city’s work and priorities.
Get Matched – Selected companies are paired with an interested city department to run a pilot project.
Launch – Over six months, city employees try out the product or service, gathering feedback.
Evaluate & Grow – Companies gain insights into city work, refine their offerings, and explore future opportunities with the city or other clients.
