Name every CMU alumni and faculty member to win the Wolf Prize
Name every CMU alumni and faculty member to win the Nobel Prize for Literature
How many Nobel Laureates does CMU have?
How many years did Andrew Ng teach at CMU?
Who is the Tepper School of Business named after?
How many Turing Award wnners does CMU have?
How many Tony Award winners does CMU have?
How many Academy Award winners does CMU have?
How many colleges does CMU have?
Where is the Mellon Institute located?
When was the Cohon University Center named?
How much fossil fuel energy is ued at CMU
What was Carnegie Mellon's yield in 2023
Name Carnegie Mellon's libraries
Who created the emoticon
What was the first fraternity on campus, and when was it founded?
When was ASCEND Climbing founded?
How many acres of land do Allegheny County's Parks span
How long is Pittsburgh Vintage Grand Prix
When is the Pittsburgh Vintage Grand Prix
Who runs the Highmark First Night Pittsburgh event?
When was the Dole Great American Banana Challenge
Who won the open children division of 5k Banana Run in 2025
Who won the 2025 Banana Baking Contest?
What event is the Kamin Science Center offering on October 10th 2025?
When is the dance club at the Kamin Science Center?
When is the Kamin Science Center open?
Who painted The Toilet of Venus?
How many exhibits are there at the Carnegie Museum of Art
Which Carnegie Museum has the Miniature Railroad & Village
When is Black Photojournalism at the Carnegie Museum of Art
When is the Timmy Turner Hurner Burner interivew at the Carnegie Museum of Art
When is Democracy Day at CMU
When is the Commencement at CMU
When are the finals for the first summer mini
When are final grades due for PhD students at CMU during the first semester
When is the fall drop deadline for undergrad students at CMU
When is the fall drop deadline for doctoral students at CMU
Who plays EB Clarinet for the Pittsburgh Symphony
When did Byron Stripling join the Pittsburgh Symphony
When is voter engagement office hours
When is McDaniel College playing Carnegie Mellon
When is the Carnegie Mellon Baroque Ensemble
When and what time is the Women's soccer game between Rochester and CMU
Where is Here to Stay: Celebrating 40 Years at the Architecture Archives
Is Christmas Eve a holiday observed by CMU
When is Chimmy day at CMU
When is Ben Folds with the Pittsburgh Symphony
Who is hosting A Sexual History of the Internet
Who is performing Dracula at the Benedum stage
When was Keith Webster appointed as the Henry Posner, Jr. Dean
Who is the tenth president of Carnegie Mellon University
When did Arnold Weber end his tenure as provost
What is Hannah Graber's role at CMU
Name the authors of the article 'Powering Environmentally Sustainable AI'
What percent of CMU students are international students
How many youtube subscribers does CMU have?
Where do first year students live at CMU
When is first-year move in day?
How many CMU students live at Morewood Gardens?
What is the color of Morewood Gardens?
What percent of the gross admission charge is Amusement Tax?
Are discounts available for the Amusement Tax?
How much is the yearly local services tax?
When is the local services tax due
What entity collects Realty Transfer Tax
Where does Pittsburgh rank in the 2024 Best Cities for Young Professionals
Who founded the Pittsburgh Opera?
Who is the Bitz Opera Factory named after?
What data is the Pittsburgh Taco Festival
What is Heinz College ranked in Information and Technology Management across the US
When was the Fort Pitt Museum opened?
How does the Vitis affect Pittsburgh's ecosystem?
What is David A. Coulter's primary role at CMU?
Where is Alphabet Trail and Tales
What is the budget of the city council of Pittsburgh
What are the Bachelor of Business Administration Concentrations
What is Res on Fifth's Animal
How many occupants can Mudge House hold