Where did the inaugural Picklesburgh festival take place?
What is Picklesburgh headline event?
Has Picklesburgh ever been canceled?
When was the Pittsburgh Cultural Trust founded?
Who is the current CEO of the Pittsburgh Cultural Trust?
What is one of the public art projects on display year-round by the PCT in Pittsburgh's Cultural District?
How much were rubber-duck sized versions of Florentijn Hofman's sculpture sold for?
Who sang the highest note ever recorded in the Metropolitan Opera's history?
Who is the current music director for the Pittsburgh Opera?
How expensive was the reconstruction of the Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra's theater in 1967 - 1971?
Who was the Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra's music director in 1952?
What is the Frick Pittsburgh?
How much are the fees at Frick Pittsburgh?
What was the visiting exhibition at Frick Pittsburgh from June, 2016 to September, 2016?
What is an automobile on display at Frick Pittsburgh?
What is the largest museum in the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania?
Where is the Fort Pitt Musuem located?
What is the size of the Fort Pitt Museum?
Who is the History Center in Pittsburgh named after?
Who designed the E-Motion cone?
Who donated $65 million to the Science Center in September, 2025?
What was the first production of the Pittsburgh Opera?
When was the current Pittsburgh Opera's Music Director appointed?
What phone number can I call to reach a Pittsburgh Opera staff member?
Where is the Westinghouse Memorial located?
What can I see from the West End-Elliot Overlook Park?
Who maintains the Three Rivers Hertiage Trail?
How long is the Three Rivers Heritage Trail in miles?
What is an invasive species that can be found at South Side Park?
How large is the South Shore Riverfront Park?
Who owns the South Shore Riverfront Park?
What was the site of Schenley Plaza originally called?
Who donated 300 acres of land for Schenley park in 1889?
What golf course is located within Schenley Park?
What famous running event was held at Schenley Park in 1921?
Who lead the build of the Phipps Conservatory & Botanical Gardens in 1893?
Is the Schenley Bridge mentioned in a book?
What dates is the Rodef Shalom Botanical Garden open?
What are the plants labeled with at the Rodef Shalom Botanical Garden?
Who maintains the Roberto Clemente Memorial Park?
What neighborhood is the Riverview Park located in?
What year was Fort Pitt abandonded to the locals by the British Crown?
How many of the total bastions of Fort Pitt have been restored?
What nickname did locals give Point of View Park?
How much does the Point of View sculpture weigh?
What material is the Point of View sculpture made of?
What is the total length of the Panther Hollow Bridge in feet?
Where were the Italian immigrants that settled in Panther Hollow originally from?
What color is the pavement at Mellon Square?
What architectural design was used to design the Walled Garden at Mellon Park?
What is a sport that can be played at Mellon Park?
What is the diameter of the fountain located at Mellon Green?
What protest used Mellon Green as its base in 2011?
What is another name for the Mary Schenley Memorial Fountain?
What famous rapper has albums and songs with Frick Park based names?
How large was the original trust fund set aside for long-term maintenance of Frick Park?
What was installed in the Frank Curto Park in 1977?
What University students can be seen on Flagstaff Hill?
Is the Chatham University Arboretum open to the public?
What award has the Allegheny Riverfront Park received?
On what date and time did the Allegheny Arsenal explode?
How many of the original Allegheny Arsenal buildings are standing?
How much does the Pittsburgh Cultural Trust pay in rent each year for the Wood Street Galleries?
What floor of Salk Hall is the dental museum on?
What is the centerpiece exhibit of the human reliquary at the Trundle Manor?
What conference was held at the ToonSeum in May of 2013?
How many seats does the theatre of the Stephen Collins Foster Memorial have?
What is the largest memorial in the United States dedicated to honroing all branches of the military called?
How many visitors does the Contemporary Craft's exhibits bring in annually?
What is Randyland regarded as?
How many employees did the Pittsburgh Glass Center have in 2012?
How many Pittsburghers gathered at the PCA's opening ceremonies?
What is one of the nationality rooms that is not used as a classroom and can only be accessed by guiided tour?
How much larger is the current Miniature Railroad & Village platform than the original?
What type of allegations were brought against the Mattress Factory in September, 2018?