How many acres of land do Allegheny County's Parks span
Who was the Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra's music director in 1952?
Who designed the E-Motion cone?
What floor of Salk Hall is the dental museum on?
Who won the open children division of 5k Banana Run in 2025
What was installed in the Frank Curto Park in 1977?
When was the current Pittsburgh Opera's Music Director appointed?
What color is the pavement at Mellon Square?
How many Tony Award winners does CMU have?
Where does Pittsburgh rank in the 2024 Best Cities for Young Professionals
What percent of CMU students are international students
What award has the Allegheny Riverfront Park received?
How many exhibits are there at the Carnegie Museum of Art
What is an automobile on display at Frick Pittsburgh?
What nickname did locals give Point of View Park?
What is another name for the Mary Schenley Memorial Fountain?
What is the budget of the city council of Pittsburgh?
What was Carnegie Mellon's yield in 2023
Who lead the build of the Phipps Conservatory & Botanical Gardens in 1893?
Name every CMU alumni and faculty member to win the Nobel Prize for Literature
What is the color of Morewood Gardens?
How much larger is the current Miniature Railroad & Village platform than the original?
Name Carnegie Mellon's libraries
Are discounts available for the Amusement Tax?
What is the size of the Fort Pitt Museum?
When is the Pittsburgh Vintage Grand Prix
What is the largest museum in the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania?
What is the largest memorial in the United States dedicated to honroing all branches of the military called?
When is the Commencement at CMU
Who is the tenth president of Carnegie Mellon University
How much are the fees at Frick Pittsburgh?
Is Christmas Eve a holiday observed by CMU
When is the local services tax due
Where do first year students live at CMU
Has Picklesburgh ever been canceled?
How many seats does the theatre of the Stephen Collins Foster Memorial have?
When is the Timmy Turner Hurner Burner interivew at the Carnegie Museum of Art
Who is the current music director for the Pittsburgh Opera?
What neighborhood is the Riverview Park located in?
Who is the current CEO of the Pittsburgh Cultural Trust?
What is Heinz College ranked in Information and Technology Management across the US
Who founded the Pittsburgh Opera?
How many of the total bastions of Fort Pitt have been restored?
What percent of the gross admission charge is Amusement Tax?
What is one of the public art projects on display year-round by the PCT in Pittsburgh's Cultural District?
