Mike Cornell and the staff at Frick Environmental Center want to get more people to utilize the parks in their Pittsburgh neighborhoods. Pittsburgh has over 640 acres of park land and includes 104 neighborhood parks. He says that a park is a “right and privilege” that should not be taken advantage of and all it takes is to walk out the front door.

Frick Environmental Center offers families, students, and learners of all ages a state-of-the-art space for hands-on, environmental education. There is also a STEM focus for its younger patrons. Mike Cornell, the Naturalist Educator, coordinates the volunteer naturalists and building docents.

Volunteer naturalists are the field educators of the center and offer their time and expertise to work the information desk, assist with school programs, and program development for community education for Frick Environmental Center. Volunteer naturalists are driven by their passion for nature and the environment, and Cornell wants to continue to support this program.

“If they are passionate about it, we can schedule and promote it so they can teach it. The parks and libraries are the two places where you can always go for free and the parks don’t have doors that lock,” he says

To be a Volunteer Naturalist, Pittsburghers must go through a seven week training where they will learn about park conservancy, effective presentation skills, and proper planning strategies for good educational programming. Previous classes have included nature photography, nature education for kids, and hiking skills. Cornell says classes like this can prepare an average citizen to appreciate and embrace parks into their everyday lives and schedules.

“You can get to the park and always enjoy the parks and you don’t have to have a membership. It can be your gym. It can be your classroom. It can be the place you unwind. It can be the place to read a book,” he says.
jasujazmudzinski
Frick Environmental Center was opened in 2016 and is housed in Frick Park, Pittsburgh’s largest and youngest urban park.
jasujazmudzinski
In 1897, after reading a New York newspaper report about the bones of a “colossal” creature found out West, Carnegie ordered then-museum Director William Holland to “buy this for Pittsburgh.” Unable to purchase a specimen, Holland, with the financial backing of Carnegie, dispatched a team to Wyoming in 1898. A year later, the group hit pay dirt: the well-preserved bones of a new species of dinosaur that would eventually be named after Carnegie, Diplodocus carnegii (aka, “Dippy”). But where would the museum put the gigantic creature once its scientists pieced him back together again?
By 1901, Carnegie committed to the expansion of his Institute, and plans for the addition that would become home to his namesake included a new foyer for the Music Hall, a Hall of Architecture, and a Hall of Sculpture. Cost estimates quickly went from $1.75 million, to $3.6 million, to a final cost of more than $5 million. Excavation began on November 1, 1903, and it took the better part of the next four years to complete the project. The new building, much as it stands today (without the Scaife wing, which was added in 1974), was opened with great pomp and circumstance on April 12, 1907.
It’s a sure bet that in late 2007, the celebration for the opening of Dinosaurs in Their World will be every bit as elaborate. But this time, Pittsburgh will be celebrating the return of Carnegie’s dinosaurs—in a setting bigger and better than even Andrew Carnegie could have ever imagined.
jasujazmudzinski
History of Carnegie Museums is bookended by two periods of fantastic growth.
It all started in November 1895 with the founding of Carnegie Institute, known today as Carnegie Museums. Andrew Carnegie called the grand building—which included Carnegie Music Hall and Carnegie Library of Pittsburgh—his “monument,” and he considered it the chief satisfaction of his life.
A year later, Carnegie Museums held the first Carnegie International, second only to the Venice Biennale as the world’s oldest and most prestigious international exhibition of contemporary art, and the museum’s collection of art quickly grew as a result.
To make room for the display of his namesake, Diplodocus carnegii, in 1904 Andrew Carnegie broke ground on Carnegie Museums’ first major expansion. While the most famous product of that growth was the great Dinosaur Hall, its neighboring hall, the Hall of Architecture, best embodied Andrew Carnegie’s desire to “bring the world” to the people of Pittsburgh.
Carnegie Museums’ second most ambitious period of growth began in 1974, with the opening of the Sarah Scaife Galleries, which gave Carnegie Museum of Art’s constantly growing collections their own elegant space. Between 1980 and 1993, Carnegie Museum of Natural History added a number of new exhibit halls: Hillman Hall of Minerals & Gems, Polar World, the Benedum Hall of Geology, the Walton Hall of Ancient Egypt, and the Hall of African Wildlife.
Three years later, in 1994, Carnegie Museums again brought something new and irreplaceable to Pittsburgh, and the world: The Andy Warhol Museum, the most comprehensive single-artist museum in the world, illuminating the art and life of one of the most influential American artists of the 20th century and serving as a global ambassador to Pittsburgh’s cultural richness and diversity.
Carnegie Museums' centennial occured in 1995
jasujazmudzinski
Carnegie Museums Events
Event 1: Charles “Teenie” Harris Archive Gallery, October 5, 2026 at The Carnegie Museum of Art
Event 2: Andy Warhol: Vanitas Members Event Saturday, November 8, 2025, 6 – 9 p.m. at the Andy Warhol Museum
Event 3: Story Saturday: Woven of the World Sat., Dec. 13, 2025, 11 a.m.–12 p.m. at the Bruce Galleries
jasujazmudzinski
The Andy Warhol Museum in Pittsburgh, PA was cofounded in 1989 by the Andy Warhol Foundation for the Visual Arts, the Dia Art Foundation, and Carnegie Institute. Home to more than 500,000 objects, it is the largest repository of Warhol’s artwork and archival materials and among the most comprehensive single-artist museums in the world. Since opening to the public in 1994 in a converted historical warehouse, the museum has facilitated a proliferation of rigorous Warhol-related scholarship, research, and curatorial innovation, vastly broadening our understanding of the profound artistic and cultural impact of one of the most complex, influential, and mythologized cultural figures of the 20th century.
While the Foundation played a pivotal role in establishing it, The Warhol museum is an independent institution within the Carnegie Museums of Pittsburgh organization. The Foundation initially donated more than 3,000 artworks and films, as well as archives, personal belongings, and other ephemera from the artist’s estate to form the museum’s core collection and also awarded a $2 million grant to help fund architect Richard Gluckman’s conversion of the 1911 industrial building into a state-of-the-art space. The museum now occupies eight floors where Warhol’s art, films, videos, and archives can be properly preserved, closely examined, creatively exhibited, and better understood by a wider audience.
Shedding light on the full breadth of Warhol’s intense productivity, from the late 1940s through 1987, acclaimed works to lesser-known pieces that have been presented to the public for the first time. Warhol’s multi-dimensional creativity can be traced from the drawings he made while studying pictorial design at Carnegie Tech and the commercial illustrations he produced for Madison Avenue, to his groundbreaking Pop Art experiments with photographic silk-screens and innovations in portraiture, to his later collaborations with fellow artists and radical innovations in abstraction. Special galleries spotlight his extraordinary fixation on the moving image, represented by roughly 500 experimental films and more than 2,500 videos, including his TV talk shows and Factory Diaries—unedited footage of everyday life at his studio. In 1997, the Foundation transferred ownership of the rights to most of Warhol’s film and video work to the museum.
Equally significant are the museum’s holdings of Warhol’s archives and belongings. A notoriously devoted documentarian of daily life, he photographed, audio recorded, and videotaped thousands of social interactions and fleeting moments, both personal and professional. He was also an obsessive collector, saving periodicals, press clippings, posters, photos, and other ephemera. These vital historical records are preserved in the museum’s specially designed Study Center, along with 610 of Warhol’s Time Capsules (donated by the Foundation), which the artist began assembling in 1970 by tossing correspondence, receipts, bills, fan mail, exhibition announcements, phone messages, and other everyday tidbits into cartons, which he then sealed. In 2007, the Foundation provided the museum with a $625,000 grant to help fund efforts to unseal the boxes and archive the contents—a process that is still ongoing. The archives also include Warhol’s libraries, a full run of Interview magazine, and hundreds of personal items, including art supplies, 175 cookie jars, and several wigs.
Warhol would likely have approved of the museum’s encyclopedic task of preserving his belongings, and not because he thought his life was worthy of immortalizing. Rather, he was simply very fond of stuff. As he wrote in the Philosophy of Andy Warhol, “Just because people throw it out and don’t have any use for it, doesn’t mean it’s garbage.”
jasujazmudzinski
CHORUS AUDITIONS
slide-plusslide-minus
Our 2025-26 Season chorus auditions are now closed. Auditions for the 2026-27 Season will take place in May 2026.
Contact Kristen Martin, Manager of Artistic Administration, for more information. 
SUPERNUMERARY OPPORTUNITIES
slide-plusslide-minus
Pittsburgh Opera Supernumerary Opportunities
Have you ever wanted to dance with Carmen, serve at the Café Momus, or simply be onstage at the Benedum Center? Apply to become a supernumerary!
What is a Supernumerary?
A Supernumerary—or “super”— is a non-singing, non-speaking role, much like an extra in film and television. Supers may perform as townspeople, guards, servants, and much more, providing silent but essential support to Pittsburgh Opera’s productions. Supers will share the stage with internationally renowned artists, work with celebrated directors and conductors, and experience the magic of opera from the Benedum Center stage.
Stage experience is helpful but not required, and all super positions are filled on a voluntary basis. Individuals of all ages, races, ethnicities, genders, and abilities are welcome and encouraged to apply.
Pittsburgh Opera Supernumerary General Information
Our larger productions will be presented at the Benedum Center in Downtown Pittsburgh. Staging rehearsals will take place at Pittsburgh Opera’s Bitz Opera Factory in the Strip District.
Pittsburgh Opera’s Supernumeraries are enthusiastic and dependable. Supers are required to attend approximately 10-15 rehearsals, generally nights and weekends, as well as all performances. The occasional daytime rehearsal may be scheduled.
Supers are paid a small honorarium of $100 and receive two (2) complimentary tickets, subject to availability. We are not able to offer housing or union credit for these roles.
How do I apply?
Follow the link below to complete an application. No phone calls please.
Pittsburgh Opera Supernumerary Application
Please complete the application and submit a recent full-body photo. Applicants will be added to the Pittsburgh Opera Database and will be contacted via email as opportunities become available. 
If it has been over two years since you last applied, you can update your information by filling out a new application.
If you would like to remove your name from the Pittsburgh Opera Supernumerary Database, please email kmartin@pittsburghopera.org.
jasujazmudzinski
Principal Roles
Pittsburgh Opera conducts general auditions every December in New York City and by appointment in Pittsburgh. These auditions are not associated with any future repertoire, but are for general purposes only.
To be considered for an audition, send a cover letter, resume, photo and/or recording via US Mail or e-mail to:
Robert Boldin, Director of Artistic Operations
Pittsburgh Opera
2425 Liberty Avenue
Pittsburgh, PA 15222.
We regret that we are not able to audition all who submit materials and only selected applicants will be contacted for auditions.
Applications are accepted from both represented and non-represented singers.
jasujazmudzinski