CMU has 1,586 Faculty from 63 countries
CMU has 16,335 students
CMU has over 7,300 undergraduate students 
CMU has over 8,400 graduate students 
CMU has 127,691 active alumni
45% of CMU's students are international students
22+ Members Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra musicians serve as distinguished faculty in CMU's School of Music
21 Nobel Prizes have been awarded to CMU faculty and alumni award, widely recognized as one of the highest honors an individual can receive, in 5 of the 6 possible categories.
jasujazmudzinski
In 1955, Herbert Simon and Allen Newell create Logic Theorist, a computer program that could solve logic puzzles in the same way a human might in a game of chess.
In 1984, CMU built the robot terregator, which pioneered exploration, road following and mine mapping. It was the world’s first rugged, capable, autonomous outdoor navigation robot.
In 2006, CMU founded its machine learning department, considered the world’s first machine learning academic department.
CMU’s and General Motors self-driving SUV “BOSS” wins the 2007 DARPA Urban Challenge, a driverless car competition.
In 2018, CMU announced the first AI undergraduate major. This was the first offered AI undergraduate major by a U.S. university in response to extraordinary technical breakthroughs in AI and the growing demand by students and employers.
In 2022, CMU announces a new first-of-its-kind Master of Science in Artificial Intelligence Engineering degree, combining AI and machine learning with engineering domain knowledge.
jasujazmudzinski

CMU is the number 24 University in the World by Times Higher Education and #20 in the U.S. by U.S. News & World Report.
CMU holds the #1 artificial intelligence program and the #2 computer science program in the U.S., according to U.S. News & World Report.
CMU is a founding EPA Green Power Partner and receive 100% of its electricity from renewable sources.
21 Nobel Laureates Presented to CMU faculty and alumni in the fields of Chemistry, Economic Sciences, Peace, Physics and Physiology or Medicine.
2 Stockholm Prize in Criminology awarded to CMU faculty and alumni for achievements in criminological research or its application to reduce crime and advance human rights. Daniel S. Nagin, Heinz College Faculty, Tepper School 1971, Heinz College 1976 2014. Alfred Blumstein, Heinz College Faculty 2007
13 Turing Awards awarded to CMU faculty and alumni.
CMU Senior Zoe Schneider Awarded K&L Gates Prize
Carnegie Mellon University historian Edda Fields-Black has been awarded the 2025 Pulitzer Prize in History for her book COMBEE: Harriet Tubman, the Combahee River Raid and Black Freedom during the Civil War. The book explores the 1863 Combahee River Raid, led by Tubman, which resulted in the liberation of 756 enslaved people. Fields-Black’s work highlights the voices of the freedom seekers and Tubman’s leadership in this pivotal Civil War event.
jasujazmudzinski

Times Higher Education Rankings of CMU (2025)
World University Rankings: #24
Computer Science (World): #6
Engineering and Technology (World): #20
Psychology (World): #24
Business and Economics (World): #26
U.S. University Rankings: #15

QS World University Rankings of CMU (2025): 58th worldwide

Shanghai Jiao Tong University 2024 Rankings of CMU:
Top 150 Worldwide overall
Computer Science and Engineering: #4
Electrical and Electronic Engineering: #51-75
Statistics: #14
Library and Information Science: #18
Economics: #51-75
Mechanical Engineering: #47
Chemistry: #51-75
Materials Science and Engineering: #76-100
Psychology: #43
Automation & Control: #33


Princeton Review Rankings of CMU (2025)
Best Value Colleges (Private Schools): #13
Best College Theater: #1
Top 20 Best Career Placement (Private Schools): #6

Forbes Rankings of CMU (2025)
America's Top Colleges: #58
Among Private Colleges: #40
Among Research Universities: #44

Environmental Protection Agency Rankings of CMU (2024)
Green Power Partnership Top 30 Colleges and Universities: #15

Animation Career Review Rankings of CMU (2024)
Top 50 Animation Schools and Colleges in the U.S.: #15
Top 50 Game Design Schools and Colleges in the U.S.: #3
Top 50 Graphic Design Schools and Colleges in the U.S.: #12
jasujazmudzinski


CMU is proud to call Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania home. The city provides an unbeatable combination of affordability and opportunity for our students and staff. With a cost of living at the national average, a thriving innovation ecosystem, and rich cultural offering,  the Steel City is an ideal place to study and launch your career.
Home to cutting-edge startups, tech giants and healthcare leaders, Pittsburgh contains a wealth of internship and professional opportunities. As a CMU Tartan, you'll be at the heart of this energetic environment, surrounded by like-minded peers and industry pioneers. But that's just the beginning of what makes our city shine.
Spend your weekends exploring world-class museums, historic music venues and award-winning restaurants. Or perhaps you’d rather bike along the riverfront trails, hike in nearby parks or cheer on our champion sports teams. Whatever your lifestyle, it’s easy to make Pittsburgh your home, too.
Pittsburgh has a top 10 Rental Market for Recent College Graduates according to Realtor.com
Pittsburgh is the #2 Best City to Find a Job According to WalletHub
Pittsburh has 3,800 Acres Of city parks to explore, including Schenley Park, which is adjacent to CMU campus
Nearly 300,000 professionals power Pittsburgh's booming tech industries. Opportunities multiply through startup accelerators, networking events and an innovative community eager to support the next big idea. Robotics and software engineering are the city's tech cornerstones, attracting global giants and nurturing homegrown success stories. Google, Uber, Microsoft and Apple have all established significant presences here, while an ever-expanding galaxy of tech startups — including language-learning phenomenon Duolingo and fashion innovator Modcloth — trace their roots back to Carnegie Mellon University.
jasujazmudzinski

https://www.cmu.edu/campus-life/living-in-pittsburgh
Vision
Carnegie Mellon University will have a transformative impact on society through continual innovation in education, research, creativity and entrepreneurship.
Mission
To create a transformative educational experience for students focused on deep disciplinary knowledge; problem-solving; leadership, communication and interpersonal skills; and personal health and well-being.
To cultivate a transformative university community committed to (a) attracting and retaining diverse, world-class talent; (b) creating a collaborative environment open to the free exchange of ideas, where research, creativity, innovation and entrepreneurship can flourish; and (c) ensuring individuals can achieve their full potential.
To impact society in a transformative way — regionally, nationally and globally — by engaging with partners outside the traditional borders of the university campus.
Values
Dedication, reflected in our distinctive work ethic and in our commitment to excellence
Impact, reflected in our commitment to address critical issues facing society regionally, nationally and globally
Collaboration, reflected in our interdisciplinary approach, our focus on internal and external partnerships, and our capacity to create new fields of inquiry
Creativity, reflected in our openness to new ideas and forms of expression, intellectual curiosity, willingness to take risks and entrepreneurial spirit
Empathy and compassion, reflected in our focus on improving the human condition and on the personal development of the members of our community
Inclusion, reflected in a culture and climate that seeks, welcomes and advances talented minds from diverse backgrounds
Integrity, reflected in our adherence to the highest ethical standards in personal and professional behavior, and in our commitment to transparency and accountability in governance and everything we do
Sustainability, reflected in our shared commitment to lead by example in preserving and protecting our natural resources, and in our approach to responsible financial planning
jasujazmudzinski

The Fence
The Fence is an iconic piece of Carnegie Mellon’s Pittsburgh campus. Serving as a student-centered space for free expression and community, The Fence has brought the CMU community together for more than 100 years. 
Governed by the Student Government Graffiti and Poster Policy, The Fence maintains specific expectations regarding painting it. Adherence to the policy helps keep the tradition of The Fence alive for future Tartans.
Painting The Fence
The Carnegie Mellon Student Government is dedicated to maintaining a clean and safe Fence. Please help us by adhering to the rules.

Who can paint The Fence?
The Fence may only be painted by Carnegie Mellon University-affiliated students. [Article II.D.6]
Only students guarding The Fence, and those with whom they are willingly associating, may paint The Fence. [Article II.D.6]
The Fence is considered guarded when at least two students are in the surrounding gravel area. [Article II.D.6.a]
How can you paint The Fence?
The Fence may only be hand-painted with paint brushes. [Article II.D.1.a]
No other tools such as spray paint or rollers and no other actions like dumping or smearing paint are permitted. [Article II.D.1.b]
The Fence must be completely covered with paint; partial paintings are considered vandalism. [Article II.D.1.c]
When can you paint The Fence?
The Fence must be painted between midnight to sunrise. [Article II.D.5]
Any painting outside that timeframe is considered vandalism, excluding any corrective work to undo vandalism. [Article II.D.5]
How do we keep The Fence area clean?
All paint and painting materials must stay in the gravel area surrounding The Fence, and any paint outside this area is considered graffiti. [Article II.D.2-3]
Those painting The Fence will be liable for cleanup of all resources used in painting The Fence. [Article II.D.4]
For the full set of rules, check out the Student Government’s Graffiti and Poster Policy.
Concerns at The Fence
Respect for fellow students and The Fence itself is key to ensuring this time-honored tradition continues. Student Government is committed to making sure all students and student organizations can freely participate in the tradition of painting The Fence. 
The Fence has, at times, been a flashpoint for discourse and a source of conflict. The Poster Policy Arbiter (PPA) is a student employed by Student Government to intake any concerns surrounding The Fence, help identify possible solutions, and encourage open and restorative dialogue among impacted students. By informing Student Government about possible violations of the Poster Policy or instances of conflict at The Fence, CMU community members help us to keep painting The Fence a positive experience for all.
Concerns about The Fence can be reported to the Poster Policy Arbiter and Student Government through one of the following methods:
jasujazmudzinski

History of The Fence
How It Started
Did you know that The Fence was actually not a meeting place for Carnegie Tech men and Maggie Mo women? The history of The Fence is often shrouded in misinformation. After university archives and student research, the earliest documented reference to the idea of “a fence” was in 1913. However, with major world events and ebbing interest, the building of The Fence was pushed to 1923 when the class of 1923 built what they referred to as the Senior Fence. Originally, The Fence was built for seniors, by seniors.
Reinforcing The Fence
During the days of the Senior Fence, the main tradition was for seniors to sit at the fence and celebrate their time on campus; non-seniors would be reprimanded for attempting to do so. However, that tradition slowly faded away, giving way to the tradition we know and love today – painting The Fence. Though there is not a specific year in which our tradition started, by the 1960s the tradition was in full-swing.
After many decades (and layers of paint), in 1989, the west end of the Fence collapsed and was replaced with pressure-treated lumber and concrete. In 1993, the east end of The Fence followed suit. While the original Senior Fence may no longer exist, today we have The Fence, not just for seniors, but for all students at Carnegie Mellon University.
1974: The Fence is said to have been painted when President Nixon resigned. 
1980: The Fence was painted with “Imagine” lyrics as a memorial to John Lennon.
2001: On 9/11, The Fence was painted in remembrance of the victims. The Fence doubled as a gathering location for a candlelight vigil later the same day.
2008: After the passing of CMU Professor Randy Pausch, who gave and wrote "The Last Lecture”, The Fence was painted in his honor. 
2011: After first-year art students damaged The Fence with a hacksaw, students rallied around its restoration. “Operation Heal the Fence”, a student-coordinated event, “attracted hundreds of students to the Cut that night to reclaim and repaint the Fence”.
2020: During the COVID-19 pandemic, The Fence was painted with a very relatable “CYA on Zoom.” 
2020: When someone changed the “Black Lives Matter” message to “All Lives Matter,” students quickly gathered to repaint The Fence to its original message.
jasujazmudzinski

Save the Date: Spring Carnival 2026
Mark your calendars for the next Spring Carnival and Reunion Weekend: April 9-11, 2026! We will be celebrating the undergraduate class years ending in 1s and 6s, plus the first reunion of the Class of 2025. Learn about Reunion Weekend and how you can get involved.
For more than 100 years, Spring Carnival has celebrated CMU's traditional mainstays like Booth, Buggy, the Kiltie Band concert and Scotch'n'Soda performances.
This year, thousands of students, alumni, faculty, staff and friends came together on campus and virtually to enjoy this oh-so-CMU tradition April 3-5 and April 12-13 (thanks to a bonus Buggy weekend due to rain).
2025 Booth Results
Fraternity
First Place: Indiana Jones by SigEp
Second Place: The Simpsons by AEPi
Third Place: Men in Black by PhiDelt
Sorority
First Place: Toy Story by KKG
Second Place: Charlie and The Chocolate Factory by DG
Third Place: Barbie World by APhi
Independent
First Place: Wall-E by SDC
Second Place: Howl's Moving Castle by ASA
Third Place: The Muppets by Fringe
Blitz
First Place: Jurassic Park by SusE/TPEG
Second Place: Aladdin by MENASA/Spirit
Third Place: Sharknado by KGB/PRISM
Doghouse
First Place: Peanuts by ScottyLabs
Second Place: The Iron Giant by RoboClub
Third Place: Ponyo by Kappa Phi Lambda
Other Awards
Overall winner: Jurassic Park by SusE/TPEG
People's Choice Award: The Muppets by Fringe
Chairman's Choice Award: Toy Story by KKG
2025 Sweepstakes Results
Men:
CIA A (2:11:49)
SDC A (2:15:86)
SDC B (2:16:27)
Women:
SDC A (2:39:06)
CIA B (2:44:42)
SDC B (2:45:45)
All Gender:
SDC A (2:25.62)
PiKA A (2:38.77)
Fringe A (2:43.90)
jasujazmudzinski
"What's Buggy?" you ask.
It is the quintessential interdisciplinary sport and it's one of Carnegie Mellon University's longest held traditions.
This annual student-led relay race, officially known as "Sweepstakes," partners designers, engineers, mechanics and athletes. Together, these brilliant, quirky, creative minds produce a buggy — an aerodynamic vehicle with no engine. It's powered by brains and brawn alone.
In just over two minutes, teams of power-pushing men and women race around a 0.84 mile track with buggy and driver leading the way around Schenley Park's Flagstaff Hill, with speeds up to 40 mph.
Every April during Spring Carnival, students, alumni and community fans watch Buggy teams compete for the annual title.
jasujazmudzinski
Scotty Saturday
October 4, 2025 is Scotty Saturday!
Scotty Saturday celebrates Carnegie Mellon spirit and pride, uplifting our incredible students and highlighting the vibrancy of our campus! Join us for a fun-filled afternoon of activities, traditions, student talent showcases, free snacks, and more!
Each year, The Office of Student Involvement and Traditions partners with the Office of Family Engagement to host Scotty Saturday during CMU’s annual Family Weekend! Don’t forget to check out all the fantastic sessions, workshops, and other experiences.
Scotty Saturday at a Glance:
2025 Schedule of Events
Afternoon Adventures & Activities 12pm - 2pm
Spring Carnival Theme Reveal 12:30pm
Tartans Football Game 2pm
Evening Eats & Entertainment 4pm - 6pm
Apparel Sale 4pm - 6pm
Student Showcase 4pm - 6pm
jasujazmudzinski

The FAIR showcases many of CMU's 350+ Student Government recognized student organizations and 20+ sorority and fraternity organizations. The entire CMU community — undergraduate and graduate students, staff, and faculty — are invited to explore ways to get involved at Carnegie Mellon.

The FAIR 2025

The FAIR 2025 will be held Wednesday September 3, 2025 from 4:30 p.m. - 6:30 p.m. on The Cut & near The Fence.

The Winter FAIR 2025 

The Winter FAIR 2026 will be held Wednesday January 21, 2026 from 5:00 p.m. - 6:30 p.m. in Wiegand Gymnasium. 

How do I register my organization for the FAIR?
Student organization registration opens August 11, 2025! Student organization officers will receive the registration link in the Office of Student Involvement and Traditions' Scotty Scoop newsletter sent to organizations, on The FAIR's TartanConnect webpage website, and the CMUGetInvolved Instagram. A space is not guaranteed. Registration is on a first-come, first-serve basis, so we encourage organizations to register early!

How do we prepare for the FAIR?
Check to make sure your student organization page on TartanConnect is fully up-to-date.
Meet with members from your student organization to plan and prepare for your table at the FAIR. Teamwork means less work on any one person and you’ll have more fun. Remember to include members of your organization who don't hold a leadership position.
Create a display that is engaging and will appeal to your audience. Your display/poster/banner/table cloth should have your organization name on it. A staff member from the Office of Student Involvement and Traditions may ask you to remove an item that is obstructing the view of another organization.
Each organization has a unique QR Code on their TartanConnect page that users can scan to automatically join an organization's Member page. Be sure to print this out or have a digital copy on a personal device for your table!
Do not expect to have electrical outlets. Generators are not permitted. We ask that any music or recorded sound be played only at a level that does not impede conversations at the table next you. A staff member from the Office of Student Involvement and Traditions may ask you to turn sound down or off. We will not be able to provide performance or demonstration space for your organization. 
Brainstorm with organization members for a creative giveaway to pass out to visitors. (Live animals are not permitted as giveaways). Have members at your table to answer questions. Be proactive and approach students instead of just setting up a display and standing by it. Have a sign-up sheet ready to collect names and emails of those interested in joining your organization.
Plan when and where your first meeting or information session will be so that you can advertise that information during the FAIR.
jasujazmudzinski
Founder Spotlight
A self-educated "working boy," Andrew Carnegie emigrated from Scotland in 1848 and settled in Pittsburgh, Pa. Attending night school and borrowing books, Carnegie went from factory worker in a textile mill to successful entrepreneur and industrialist. He rose to prominence by founding what became the world's largest steel producing company by the end of the 19th century.
"My heart is in the work," he stated, which would become part of the school's official motto.
At one point the richest man in the world, Carnegie once said, "To die rich is to die disgraced." He turned his attention to writing, social activism and philanthropy, determined to establish educational opportunities for the general public where few existed.
1900: Initial Funding for Carnegie Technical Schools
In 1900, Andrew Carnegie donated $1 million to the city of Pittsburgh, envisioning a school where working-class men and women of Pittsburgh could learn practical skills, trades and crafts that would enhance their careers, lives and communities.
The Carnegie Technical Schools offered two- and three-year certificates in the arts as well as in engineering disciplines and included a college for women, Margaret Morrison Carnegie College.
Initial number of students: 120. The first Carnegie Technical Schools class was admitted in 1906.
1912: Carnegie Tech Grants Bachelor's Degrees
Soon faced with the demand for baccalaureate programs, Carnegie Technical Schools changed its name to the Carnegie Institute of Technology, or "Carnegie Tech", and began offering bachelor's degrees through its College of Engineering and College of Fine Arts.
Carnegie Tech set the groundwork for a research institution, recruiting leading scientists, offering sponsored fellowships with government and industry leaders and pioneering nontraditional interdisciplinary research, which brought together physicists, chemists and metallurgists, for example. Interdisciplinary research would become the hallmark of Carnegie Mellon research. In 1919, the first doctorate (in civil engineering) was awarded to Mao Yisheng, a student from China.
Early 20th Century Progress
During the first half of the 20th century, with support from Andrew Carnegie and other funders, Carnegie Tech laid the foundation for a school on the cutting edge. It expanded from two buildings into an elegant 20th-century campus designed in the Beaux Arts architectural style, housing a wealth of machine shops, studios and laboratories — the hands-on center of learning that persists today.
Carnegie died in 1919, but his vision for an educated public lived on after him.
With the end of World War II, the latter half of the 20th century brought unprecedented growth to Carnegie Tech. In 1956, the arrival of the first IBM computer to campus was revolutionary, initiating a university culture where information technology pervaded virtually all areas of study.
University culture also changed in 1973, when Margaret Morrison closed and women joined their male peers in classrooms and dorms.
1948: The Graduate School of Industrial Administration, later renamed the David A. Tepper School of Business, focused on quantitative analysis and pioneering the field of management science.
1968: The School of Urban and Public Affairs, later renamed the H. John Heinz III College, provided graduate training for work in the public sector.
1986: The School of Computer Science pioneered computing and artificial intelligence, led by interdisciplinary efforts of Allen Newell and Herbert Simon.
The CMU of Today
In 1967, Carnegie Tech merged with the Mellon Institute, a science research center founded by the Mellon family of Pittsburgh, to become known as Carnegie Mellon University.
This support from the Mellons allowed Carnegie Mellon to establish the last of its current pillars: the Mellon College of Science and the College of Humanities and Social Sciences, now known as the Marianna Brown Dietrich College of Humanities and Social Sciences.
In 2017, Carnegie Mellon celebrated the 50th anniversary of the Carnegie Tech–Mellon Institute merger, revisiting the shared vision of the founders and recognizing the impact it has had, and will continue to have, in the world of higher education, research and discovery.
jasujazmudzinski
CMU's global leadership
Today its global presence includes campuses in Qatar and Silicon Valley, Calif., more than a dozen degree-granting locations, and more than 20 research partnerships in cities and countries such as Los Angeles, New York City, Washington, D.C., China, Portugal and Rwanda.
2002: Carnegie Mellon established a branch campus in Silicon Valley, the epicenter of the modern technological revolution.
2004: Carnegie University in Qatar (CMU-Q) opened its doors with 41 students, offering programs in Business Administration and Computer Science.
2011: Carnegie Mellon University and the Government of Rwanda signed an agreement to establish CMU-Africa. This partnership was designed to respond to the critical shortage of high-quality engineering talent required to harness Africa's tremendous potential as home to the fastest-growing workforce in the world.
jasujazmudzinski
College of Fine Arts, School of Architecture
Undergraduate Majors
Bachelor of Architecture, 5-year program, NAAB-accredited
Bachelor of Arts, 4-year program
Undergraduate Minors for Architecture Majors
Minor in Architectural Design Fabrication
Minor in Architectural Representation and Visualization
Minor in Architectural History
Minor in Building Science
Minor in Computational Design
Undergraduate Minors for Non-Architecture Majors
Minor in Architecture
Minor in Architectural History
Minor in Architectural Representation and Visualization
Minor in Architectural Technology
Minor in Computational Design

College of Fine Arts, School of Art
Undergraduate Majors
Bachelor of Fine Arts in Art Concentrations:
Drawing, Painting, Printmaking and Photography
Sculpture, Installation and Site Work
Electronic and Time-Based Media
Contextual Practice
Undergraduate Minors for Art Majors & Non-Majors
Minor in Art
Minor in Photography
Minor in IDEATE
Learn MorE
jasujazmudzinski

College of Fine Arts, School of Design
Undergraduate Majors
Bachelor of Design
Tracks:
Communications
Products
Environments
Undergraduate Minors for Design Majors
Minor in IDEATE
Undergraduate Minors for Non-Design Majors
Minor in Design

College of Fine Arts, School of Drama
Undergraduate Majors
Bachelor of Fine Arts in Drama
Programs and Options:
Acting
Design
Costume
Lighting
Scenic
Sound
Video & Media
Directing
Dramaturgy
Music Theater
Production Technology and Management
Production Technology
Stage & Production Management
Technical Direction
Undergraduate Minors for Non-Drama Majors
Minor in Drama
(PLEASE NOTE: ADMISSION TO THE JOHN WELLS DIRECTING PROGRAM IS CURRENTLY PAUSED)

College of Fine Arts, School of Music 
Undergraduate Majors
Bachelor of Fine Arts in Composition
Bachelor of Fine Arts in Electronic Music
Bachelor of Fine Arts in Instrumental Performance
Bachelor of Fine Arts in Piano Performance
Bachelor of Fine Arts in Vocal Performance
Bachelor of Science in Music and Technology
Undergraduate Minors for Music Majors
Minor in Collaborative Piano
Minor in Conducting
Minor in Music Technology
Minor in Music Theory

Undergraduate Minors for Non-Music Majors
Minor in Music
Minor in Music Technology
Minor in Music Theory
jasujazmudzinski

Tepper School of Business Programs
B.S. in Business Administration
Bachelor of Business Administration Concentrations: Accounting, Business Analytics and Technologies, Entrepreneurship, Finance, Global Economics and Business, Marketing Management, Operations Management, and Strategic Management
B.A. in Economics
B.S. in Economics
B.S. in Economics and Mathematical Sciences (jointly with Department of Mathematical Sciences)
Additional Major in Business Administration
Minor in Business Administration
Minor in Business Analytics and Optimization
Minor in Operations and Supply Chain Management
Minor in Innovation and Entrepreneurship

Carnegie Mellon University’s Tepper School of Business offers a Bachelor of Science in Business Administration designed to prepare students for leadership in a data-driven world. With a curriculum grounded in analytics, economics, and management, the program emphasizes problem-solving, teamwork, and innovation. Students gain hands-on experience through research, experiential learning, and campus-wide collaboration, equipping them for careers in consulting, finance, technology, and beyond.
How Our Business Curriculum Is Structured
Our business curriculum is designed around core courses that include business, economics, mathematics, and statistics course requirements. Our eight concentrations allow students to go deep in their specific business area of interest. Courses build on leading business practices while being informed by the innovative research of our faculty.
The first-year curriculum is devoted to building foundational analysis, communication, and context skills through courses in economics, math, and the liberal arts. First-year students also enroll in Business Science, a course that sets the foundation for their business education. With one of the lowest student-to-faculty ratios of the top 10 undergraduate business programs, Tepper School faculty enjoy taking a more personal interest in your success.
After your first semester, you will discover that our curriculum is flexible and allows you to maximize your undergraduate studies to achieve your academic goals. During sophomore and junior years, you’ll concentrate on your business core classes, electives, and general education courses and select a minor. Senior year includes a senior capstone course and is flexible enough to finish your degree requirements in the pathway that works best for you.
Check the undergraduate course catalog for additional business curriculum details.
jasujazmudzinski
CMU School of Computer Science programs
Artificial Intelligence
B.S. in Artificial Intelligence
Computer Science
B.S. in Computer Science 
Computational Biology Department
B.S. in Computational Biology
Human-Computer Interaction
B.S. in Human-Computer Interaction
Robotics Institute
B.S. in Robotics
BXA Intercollege Degree Programs
Bachelor of Computer Science and Arts (jointly with the School of Computer Science and the College of Fine Arts)
Bachelor of Engineering Studies and Arts (jointly with the College of Engineering and the College of Fine Arts)
Bachelor of Humanities and Arts (jointly with the Dietrich College of Humanities and Social Sciences and the College of Fine Arts)
Bachelor of Science and Arts (jointly with the Mellon College of Science and the College of Fine Arts)
Computational Finance Program
B.S. in Computational Finance (jointly with the Dietrich College of Humanities and Social Sciences, Heinz College, Mellon College of Science and Tepper School of Business)
jasujazmudzinski
Mellon College of Science programs
Biological Sciences
B.A. in Biological Sciences
B.S. in Biological Sciences
B.S. in Biological Sciences/Neuroscience Track
B.S. in Biological Sciences and Psychology (jointly with the Department of Psychology)
B.S. in Neuroscience (jointly with the Department of Psychology)
Chemistry
B.A. in Chemistry
B.S. in Chemistry
B.S. in Chemistry/Biological Chemistry Track
Mathematical Sciences
B.A. in Mathematical Sciences
B.S. in Mathematical Sciences
B.S. in Mathematical Sciences (Computational and Applied Mathematics)
B.S. in Mathematical Sciences (Discrete Mathematics and Logic)
B.S. in Mathematical Sciences (Operations Research and Statistics)
B.S. in Mathematical Sciences (Statistics)
B.S. in Mathematical Sciences and Economics (jointly with the Undergraduate Economics Program)
B.S. in Computational Finance (jointly with the Department of Statistics, the H. John Heinz III College, and the Tepper School of Business)
Physics
B.A. in Physics
B.S. in Physics
B.S. in Physics/Applied Physics Track
B.S. in Physics/Astrophysics Track
B.S. in Physics/Biological Physics Track
B.S. in Physics/Computational Physics Track
B.S. in Physics/Chemical Physics Track
B.S. in Physics/Quantum Physics Track
Dietrich College of Humanities and Social Sciences Programs
Interdepartmental
B.A. in Ethics, History, and Public Policy (jointly offered by the Departments of History and Philosophy)
B.S. in Ethics, History, and Public Policy (jointly offered by the Departments of History and Philosophy)
B.S. in Information Systems
B.A. in Linguistics (jointly offered by the Departments of English, Languages, Cultures, and Applied Linguistics, Philosophy, and Psychology)
B.S. in Neuroscience (jointly offered by the Department of Biological Sciences and the Center for the Neural Basis of Cognition)
B.S. in Psychology and Biological Sciences (jointly offered by the Departments of Psychology and Biological Sciences)
Carnegie Mellon Institute for Strategy and Technology
B.S. in International Relations and Political Science
B.S. in Political Science, Security, and Technology
B.S. in Economics and Politics
English
B.A. in Creative Writing
B.A. in Film and Visual Media
B.A. in Literature and Culture
B.A. in Professional Writing
B.S. in Technical Writing
B.S. in Technical Writing and Communication
History
B.A. in Global Studies
B.A. in Social and Political History
B.S. in Social and Political History
Languages, Cultures, and Applied Linguistics
B.A. in Chinese Studies
B.A. in French and Francophone Studies
B.A. in German Studies
B.A. in Hispanic Studies
B.A. in Japanese Studies
B.A. in Russian Studies
B.A. in Applied Multilingual Studies
Philosophy
B.A. in Philosophy
B.S. in Logic and Computation
Psychology
B.A. in Psychology
B.S. in Psychology
B.S. in Cognitive Science
Social and Decision Sciences
B.S. in Behavioral Economics
B.S. in Decision Science
B.S. in Policy and Management
Statistics and Data Science
B.S. in Statistics and Data Science
B.S. in Statistics and Data Science (Mathematical Sciences Track)
B.S. in Statistics and Data Science (Neuroscience Track)
B.S. in Statistics and Machine Learning
B.S. in Economics and Statistics
jasujazmudzinski
College of Engineering Programs
Additional major in Biomedical Engineering
Minor in Biomedical Engineering
Bachelor of Science in Chemical Engineering
Bachelor of Science in Civil Engineering
Bachelor of Science in Environmental Engineering
Bachelor of Science in Electrical and Computer Engineering
Additional major in Engineering Design, Innovation, and Entrepreneurship
Additional major in Engineering and Public Policy (for engineering majors)
Additional major in Science, Technology and Public Policy (for non-engineering majors)
Minor in Technology and Policy (for non-engineering majors)
Minor in Information Security, Privacy and Policy
Bachelor of Science in Materials Science and Engineering
Minor in Materials Science and Engineering
Bachelor of Science in Mechanical Engineering
Biomedical Engineering
Engineering Studies
Technology and Policy
Information Security, Privacy and Policy
Additive Manufacturing
Audio Engineering
Automation and Controls
Biomedical Engineering
Colloids, Polymers and Surfaces
Electronic Materials
Global Engineering
Materials Science and Engineering
Mechanical Behavior of Materials
jasujazmudzinski
Intramural sports are popular on CMU campus, including leagues and one-day events throughout the academic year. You can participate in flag football, soccer, softball, inner-tube water polo, cross country and dodgeball — just to name a few. Whether you’re in it for the fierce competition or just for the friendly camaraderie, you’ll find a team to fit.
CMU Club sports offer you a chance to continue your interests from high school or to pick up a new one, while competing against other colleges and universities. There are 23 club sports organizations, including figure skating, crew (rowing), cricket, rugby, Ultimate Frisbee, cycling, fencing and martial arts.
Carnegie Mellon sponsors 19 Division III varsity sports teams. The Carnegie Mellon Tartans consistently compete on a high level, with teams and individual athletes routinely continuing on to post-season competition.
jasujazmudzinski
CMU Fraternities and Sororities
CMU has 1,100+ Fraternity & Sorority Life members
19% of the student body joins a fraternity or sorority
CMU has 18 Chapters on campus and in the city
Fraternity and Sorority Life at Carnegie Mellon University is more than just a social experience—it’s a network of driven, passionate students who support each other academically, professionally, and personally. With a strong emphasis on leadership, philanthropy, and personal growth, fraternities and sororities at CMU create spaces for students to build lifelong friendships while making a tangible impact on campus and beyond. Whether organizing large-scale service initiatives, fostering mentorship opportunities, or celebrating traditions, Fraternity and Sorority Life at CMU is about finding a community that challenges and inspires you to be your best.
jasujazmudzinski
Nearly 300,000 professionals power Pittsburgh's booming tech industries. Opportunities multiply through startup accelerators, networking events and an innovative community eager to support the next big idea. Robotics and software engineering are the city's tech cornerstones, attracting global giants and nurturing homegrown success stories. Google, Uber, Microsoft and Apple have all established significant presences here, while an ever-expanding galaxy of tech startups — including language-learning phenomenon Duolingo and fashion innovator Modcloth — trace their roots back to Carnegie Mellon University.
First-Year Move-In
Congratulations on your admission to Carnegie Mellon University! Move-In Day at CMU is high-energy and engaging, and we can't wait to meet you! You'll find all the need-to-know information here, but feel free to email us with any questions.
Move-In Day for Incoming First-Year Students is Saturday, August 16, 2025!
Due to traffic restrictions, students will be required to sign up for a move-in timeslot through the Housing Portal between 9 am and 3:30 pm. Staff and volunteers will be present until 3:30 pm to assist with your move-in. ID card pick-up will be unavailable from 3:30 pm to 4 pm while we transition to our late check-in location. 
Sensory-Friendly Move-In Option
At Carnegie Mellon, we understand that Move-In day can be exciting, but also a bit overwhelming. That's why we are offering a sensory-friendly move-in experience for students and families who prefer a calmer environment.
If you're interested in a lower sensory move-in experience, you can sign up for a move-in timeslot between 1:30 - 2:30 p.m. ET on Saturday, August 16. During this hour, our student leaders and volunteers will create a welcoming atmosphere with limited music and cheers, and will be ready to help you move your belongings. While we can't guarantee complete silence, we're committed to making this time as sensory-friendly as possible to ensure an inclusive and comfortable start for everyone.
jasujazmudzinski
The Block Center
Artificial intelligence (AI) is reshaping industries, decision-making, and daily life, making it essential to develop AI systems that are fair, transparent, and accountable. At The Block Center, our Responsible AI focus area is dedicated to ensuring AI technologies serve society equitably. We examine how AI impacts individuals and communities, develop frameworks for ethical AI deployment, and collaborate with policymakers, researchers, and industry leaders to promote responsible innovation.
Carnegie Mellon’s interdisciplinary expertise—spanning computer science, public policy, ethics, and business—positions us as a leader in AI research. Through funded projects, we support initiatives that address bias in AI, improve system accountability, and create tools for AI governance. Our team of experts works at the intersection of technology and society, shaping policies and best practices that ensure AI benefits all.
By fostering responsible AI development, we aim to build a future where technology is not only powerful but also principled.
Responsible AI is a university-wide initiative housed at The Block Center, with support from the School of Computer Science, that draws on expertise from across Carnegie Mellon.
AI Policy Impact
The Responsible AI (RAI) initiative at Carnegie Mellon's Block Center for Technology and Society significantly influences policy by translating AI research into actionable insights that promote fairness, accountability, and transparency. By engaging with policymakers, the initiative ensures that AI technologies are developed and implemented in ways that are socially responsible and equitable.
Additionally, the initiative fosters community engagement through programs like "AI 101," which educates various stakeholders—including labor unions, media professionals, and government representatives—on the societal implications of AI. These efforts demystify AI technologies and encourage inclusive dialogue, ensuring that diverse perspectives inform AI policy development. ​
jasujazmudzinski
The Wilton E. Scott Institute for Energy Innovation at Carnegie Mellon University is focused on developing and demonstrating the technologies, systems, and policies needed to accelerate the transition to a sustainable, net-zero energy future.
The Gelfand Center works with faculty, students and staff through on-campus and community-based activities that improve educational opportunities, especially in the areas of science, technology, engineering and mathematics education for youth.  The Leonard Gelfand Center for Service Learning and Outreach was endowed by alumnus Mark Gelfand, MCS '73, to create and strengthen partnerships with local schools and education providers.
Located in the Provost's division under the Vice Provost for Education, the Gelfand Center collaborates with departments across the University to support this mission. 
jasujazmudzinski
The Carnegie Mellon Institute for Strategy & Technology, or "CMIST," is a university-wide initiative dedicated to the wise development, use and governance of new and emerging technologies that are changing war and peace.  The home for Carnegie Mellon University’s study of Political Science and International Relations, CMIST is uniquely poised to take advantage of the university’s strengths in computer science and engineering, and its distinctive tradition of cross-university, cross-disciplinary research.  Focused on questions of power and governance, CMIST builds new frameworks for managing global and national security challenges. 
CMIST Non-Resident Fellow, Jamie Morgan has released her first white paper, Harnessing Innovation: A Lethal Empowerment Approach to Partner-Led Deterrence in Asia. This paper explores how decentralized communications, unmanned platforms, and advanced planning tools could significantly bolster allied security in the Indo-Pacific. Morgan argues that the US defense export system, still governed by Cold War-era processes, is failing to deliver these critical technologies quickly and effectively. To remedy this, the paper presents specific, actionable policy solutions to ensure partners have timely access to innovative, dual-use systems—before they are forced to seek out foreign competitors.
jasujazmudzinski
Welcome to the Humanities Center
Founded in 2003, the Humanities Center at Carnegie Mellon promotes and supports scholarship and research that actively engages with culture and human production across the disciplines.
Our Mission
The Humanities Center at Carnegie Mellon brings together faculty and graduate students in humanities departments (English, History, Languages, Cultures and Applied Linguistics, and Philosophy) and from the arts, social sciences, and sciences who engage in studying the human experience, human condition, and human-centered responses to real-world challenges.
An essential component of the humanities ecosystem at CMU, the Humanities Center is an incubator for original, innovative, cutting-edge, and interdisciplinary humanistic research, publicizing our humanities research and its value in our global and increasingly technologically driven society to the university and the world.
jasujazmudzinski
CMU is Deep-Rooted in AI
AI in Health
CMU is reshaping healthcare with robotics and AI innovations that enhance patient care and safety. Tools like the Head-Worn Assistive Teleoperation (HAT) interface provide independence for individuals with paralysis, while AI-driven systems prevent medication errors and analyze healthcare data to detect adverse drug events early. Deep learning models improve disease detection, and the Delphi Center for Innovation in Outbreak Analytics uses AI to enhance epidemic forecasting and readiness, ensuring preparedness for future health crises.
AI in Education
Named for the founding father of AI, Herbert Simon, the Simon Initiative harnesses a cross-disciplinary, learning-engineering ecosystem developed over several decades at CMU with the goal of measurably improving student learning outcomes. Simon Initiative researchers incorporate AI in educational technology like cognitive tutors and courseware that iteratively improves learning and teaching from kindergarten to graduate school.  At CMU, the Eberly Center for Teaching Excellence & Educational Innovation provides a blueprint for incorporating AI in the classroom.
AI in Society and Workforce
Even as we break new ground, we recognize the importance of bringing interdisciplinary teams together to explore the impact of this technology. At CMU, scientists and engineers work together with philosophers, artists and economists to discover what might be possible, while ethicists, social scientists and policy experts guide our path. The university-wide Block Center for Technology and Society is a hub for this work, and is engaged in three primary focus areas: how emerging technologies will alter the future of work, how AI and analytics can be harnessed for social good, and how innovation in these spaces can be more inclusive and improve quality of life for all.
Transforming Science
The future of science is being driven by powerful AI technologies that are essential to the analysis, connection and application of massive data streams. At CMU, we are leading the science revolution by bringing our strengths in computational methods to scientific discovery and inquiry. The birthplace of cognitive psychology, CMU has built on our legacy in brain science through our Neuroscience Institute, where neuroscientists, psychologists, statisticians, computer scientists and engineers drive new breakthroughs. We are also the first academic institution to launch a cloud lab for artificial intelligence-driven experimentation, revolutionizing academic laboratory research.
jasujazmudzinski
The origins of AI at CMU date back to our founding as a comprehensive research university in 1967, when the Mellon Institute of Industrial Research, founded by Richard and Andrew Mellon, merged with Carnegie Tech to create Carnegie Mellon University. In this fertile ground for ground-breaking research, CMU researchers Alan Newell, Herb Simon, Allen Perlis and Raj Reddy came to dominate the emerging field of computer science and establish artificial intelligence as the next frontier in human progress.
At a time when computers were barely understood, we were among the very first to recognize the power of computing, and we made some big bets. In 1965, we established our department of computer science. In 1979, we founded the first robotics institute at a U.S. university. In 1984, we attracted funding from the government to launch the Software Engineering Institute. And in 1988, we announced the first college in the world devoted solely to computer science. Ours is still the model that others follow.
In the process, we have created new fields of inquiry — such as machine learning and the science of learning—and have magnified our societal impact through technologies like autonomous vehicles and additive manufacturing.
jasujazmudzinski
Carnegie Mellon University has more than 100 research centers and institutes, addressing a broad range of interests and industries. 
The examples below showcase some of the centers where Carnegie Mellon students and faculty are working to solve real-world problems.

Arts and Humanities
Explore the research centers and projects at the front lines of the arts and humanities at Carnegie Mellon, from advancing human rights using science and technology to integrating environmental sustainability in buildings.
College of Fine Arts Research & Creative Practices
Dietrich College of Humanities and Social Sciences Research Institutes & Centers
Entertainment Technology Center
School of Architecture Research & Practice

Business and Policy
Learn about CMU’s centers and institutes dedicated to business innovation, information systems, political strategy and the governance of emerging technologies that impact policies.
Block Center for Technology and Society
Carnegie Mellon Institute for Strategy & Technology
Heinz College of Information Systems and Public Policy Research Centers
Swartz Center for Entrepreneurship
Tepper School of Business Research and Education Centers

Education and Communication
The following CMU centers provide services and resources to help graduate students and faculty become better educators. We also work with the CMU community to enhance educational opportunities for local youth, especially in STEM fields.
Eberly Center for Teaching Excellence
Intercultural Communications Center (ICC)
Leonard Gelfand Center for Service Learning and Outreach

Science and Technology
Browse CMU research centers in scientific frontiers from cybersecurity and sustainability to neuroscience and robotics. Our advanced CMU labs perform pioneering experiments to drive new discoveries that shape the future.
AI Institute for Societal Decision Making
College of Engineering Research Institutes, Centers and Initiatives
CyLab Security and Privacy Institute
Dietrich College of Humanities and Social Sciences
Hunt Institute for Botanical Documentation
Integrated Innovation Institute
Manufacturing Futures Institute
Mellon College of Science Research
Neuroscience Institute
Robotics Institute
School of Computer Science Research and Additional Centers
Software Engineering Institute
Steinbrenner Institute for Environmental Education and Research
Wilton E. Scott Institute for Energy Innovation
jasujazmudzinski
The Fence. All-night study sessions. Spring Carnival. Homecoming on a crisp fall day. Those traditions are part of your Carnegie Mellon University experience — and this space is your connection to those memories, whether you graduated 50 years ago or just last spring. 
The Carnegie Mellon University Alumni Association is the link between your experiences at CMU and everything and everyone that CMU is today, including your fellow alumni and current faculty, staff and students. On this site, you can explore all of the activities, events and resources available for you to deepen your experience as an alum. 
Please reach out if you need additional information or assistance — the CMU Alumni Association is here to help you stay connected to the university’s past, present and future. And check back frequently — exciting events and news are always on the way. 
Welcome home, Tartans.
jasujazmudzinski
New, incoming first-year students, including international first-year students and College of Fine Arts transfer students, are required to live on campus. Housing assignments for first-year students are based on a randomly generated lottery number order for all students who apply before May 25. After May 25, students will receive lottery numbers at the end of the line in the order that their application is received.
Boss House
One of the oldest residence halls on campus, Boss House is a first-year community that offers a large outdoor courtyard, first-floor community lounge, recreation and television areas, study lounges, and laundry facilities. You can always find a sense of home here with your friends and housemates, working or hanging out in the lounges and sharing their best first-year memories.
Boss House at a Glance
ROOM TYPES: Semi-suite singles and doubles
UNIT CAPACITY: 1 or 2 occupants
TOTAL CAPACITY: 72 residents
DEMOGRAPHICS: First-year
LOCATION: Margaret Morrison Avenue Neighborhood
AMENITIES: Recreation areas, TV areas, study lounges, laundry facilities, shared kitchen, semi-private bathrooms, outdoor courtyard area
AIR-CONDITIONING: Window units
Resident Assistants (RAs): 3
Color: Red
Animal: Red Panda
Clyde House
Clyde House boasts a grand staircase, beautiful stained glass windows, multiple fireplaces, a huge community-style kitchen with an island counter and hard wood floors. Clyde offers apartment units for two and three occupants. Other amenities include an enclosed porch that serves as the house’s entrance, a parlor common area on the first floor, second and third floor common areas, a study room on the second floor, laundry, and a backyard.
Clyde at a Glance
ROOM TYPES: Studio doubles and triples
UNIT CAPACITY: 2 or 3 occupants
TOTAL CAPACITY: 24 residents
LOCATION: Fifth Avenue Neighborhood
DEMOGRAPHICS: First-year
AMENITIES: TV room, community kitchen, laundry facilities, lounges on multiple floors
AIR-CONDITIONING: Window units
Resident Assistants (RAs): 1
jasujazmudzinski
Donner House is a traditional-style residence hall consisting of four floors with a large community lounge on the first floor. Donner is one of the larger communities on campus, consisting of around 240 first-year students. Our size and our love for all things blue have inspired us to adopt the blue whale as our official house mascot. What has a bigger heart than a blue whale? (Answer: nothing.) Despite our size, we boast a very tight-knit and caring community with a lot of spirit.
Donner House is one of two first-year communities that offer reduced-rate housing options in a Double-as-Triple room. Students who opt-in or are placed in a Double-as-Triple will receive a discounted housing rate. For more information, visit this page!
Donner House at a Glance
ROOM TYPES: Traditional singles, doubles, and triples; Double-as-Triples
UNIT CAPACITY: 1, 2 or 3 occupants
TOTAL CAPACITY: 239 residents
DEMOGRAPHICS: First-year
LOCATION: Margaret Morrison Avenue Neighborhood
AMENITIES: TV lounge, study lounge, recreational area, laundry facilities, kitchen, prime campus location
AIR-CONDITIONING: None (Limited window units in medical accommodation rooms)
Resident Assistants (RAs): 9
Color: blue
Animal: whale
jasujazmudzinski
E-Tower
E-Tower is a connected, supportive and reflective first-year community. Kindness and belonging create a welcoming environment in the breezeway, where Pineapples (residents of E-Tower) share encouraging words and thoughtful contemplations with one another on the large chalk board. Signature experiences of E-Tower include a faculty engagement series, reflection through journaling and other prompts, family style meals and gatherings, and end-of-the-week casual catch-up events. Pineapples maintain their connections throughout their time at CMU.
E-Tower is connected to Morewood Gardens, offering access to all of Morewood Gardens’ amenities like The Underground and makerspaces.
E-Tower at a Glance
ROOM TYPES: Traditional triples, doubles and singles
UNIT CAPACITY: 1, 2 or 3 occupants
TOTAL CAPACITY: 209 residents
DEMOGRAPHICS: First-year
LOCATION: Morewood Avenue Neighborhood
AMENITIES: Lounges, laundry facilities, breezeway to Morewood Gardens, The Underground restaurant
AIR-CONDITIONING: None
Resident Assistants (RAs): 5
Color: yellow
Symbol: pineapple
jasujazmudzinski
Hamerschlag House
Hamerschlag House, affectionately known as “Schlag,” is a traditional, first-year residence hall offering mostly double occupancy rooms, and a few singles. It is located in the heart of the Margaret Morrison St Neighborhood, just a short walk to the Neighborhood Commons. Hamerschlag was renovated with updates to study rooms, the community lounge space, and air conditioning in 2025. There is also an elevated patio known as the “Schroof,” and a large community lounge with amenities like vending machines, work spaces, ping-pong, and community TVs. Residents of Schlag enjoy a variety of traditions from the past and also will be developing new traditions in the future!
Hamerschlag House at a Glance
ROOM TYPES: Traditional singles and doubles
UNIT CAPACITY: 1 or 2 occupants
TOTAL CAPACITY: 157 residents
DEMOGRAPHICS: First-year
LOCATION: Margaret Morrison Avenue Neighborhood
AMENITIES: TV lounge, shared kitchen, laundry facilities
AIR-CONDITIONING: Central, in-unit
Resident Assistants (RAs): 6
Color: Red
Animal: hedghehog
jasujazmudzinski
Henderson House
The WHeSco community is three residential houses – Scobell, Henderson and Welch - under one umbrella. First-year residents of WHeSco have the bonus of being part of an intimate house community (under 90 residents) as well as the combined WHeSco community of around 200 residents, allowing for many opportunities to connect with a wide-range of students. WHeSco is proximate to many academic buildings and dining options in Resnik. Each building has a central area on the ground floor where students have access to lounges, laundry, and a kitchen.
Henderson House is a L.E.E.D. Certified Green Building.
ROOM TYPES: Semi-suite singles and doubles
UNIT CAPACITY: 1 or 2 occupants
TOTAL CAPACITY: 60 residents
DEMOGRAPHICS: First-year
LOCATION: Margaret Morrison Avenue Neighborhood
AMENITIES: Wellness room, laundry facilities, kitchen, TV lounges, study lounges, recreation room with a pool table
AIR-CONDITIONING: Central, in-unit
Resident Assistants (RAs): 3
Color: Maroon
Animal: Penguin
jasujazmudzinski
The Maggie Mo First-Year Houses are a community of small houses located in the Margaret Morrison Street Neighborhood in close proximity to all of the first-year communities on the Hill. Residents will enjoy large double or triple bedrooms with semi-private bathrooms, and a large first floor community space and kitchen dedicated to 14-22 residents and one Resident Assistant in each house. Each Maggie Mo First-Year House opens onto the outdoor plaza and is be located next to the Neighborhood Commons in Hamerschlag House, which offers additional space for studying and socializing.
The Maggie Mo First-Year Houses are one of two first-year communities that offer reduced-rate housing options in a Double-as-Triple room. Students who opt-in or are placed in a Double-as-Triple will receive a discounted housing rate. For more information, visit this page!
Maggie Mo First-Year Houses at a Glance
ROOM TYPES: Semi-Suite Doubles, Double-as-Triples
UNIT CAPACITY: 2 or 3 occupants
TOTAL CAPACITY: 84 first-year residents
DEMOGRAPHICS: First-year
LOCATION: Margaret Morrison Avenue Neighborhood
AMENITIES: TV lounge, shared kitchen, laundry facilities, recreation
AIR-CONDITIONING: Window units in bedrooms
Resident Assistants (RAs): 5
jasujazmudzinski
McGill shares a large outdoor courtyard with Boss House and offers a first-floor community lounge with recreation and television areas, study lounges and laundry facilities. 
McGill at a Glance
ROOM TYPES: Semi-suite singles and doubles
UNIT CAPACITY: 1 or 2 occupants
TOTAL CAPACITY: 71 residents
DEMOGRAPHICS: First-year
LOCATION: Margaret Morrison Avenue Neighborhood
AMENITIES: Recreation areas, TV areas, study lounges, laundry facilities, shared kitchen, semi-private bathrooms
AIR-CONDITIONING: Window units
Resident Assistants (RAs): 3
jasujazmudzinski
Mudge House offers an abundance of charm and inspiration. Donated to Carnegie Mellon University by the Mudge family, the original mansion (A-tower) consists of a variety of room types from singles to quads. Two additional towers of suite style rooms were added to bring the occupancy of Mudge to 310 students. Mudgies are encouraged to take advantage of the serenity of manicured courtyard and Koi pond. The first floor of Mudge is a perfect place for larger gatherings or a quiet catch-up with a few friends. Each spring, Mudge hosts a Dinner with the Deans and Faculty event, where more than 30 invited faculty and staff come to Mudge for a celebratory dinner with residents.
Color: purple
Animal: koi fish
jasujazmudzinski
Residence on 5th
The Residence on Fifth, also known as "the Rez," is a first-year apartment building in the Oakland community. Residents have their own kitchens and bathrooms in addition to lots of great common and programming space. The Rez has a newly renovated movie room, computer cluster, wireless Internet, laundry facilities, central air-conditioning, and an exercise room, and there are lots of great nooks and crannies for studying. Residents spend a lot of time in the lounges and on the first floor, creating a close-knit community.
Residence on Fifth at a Glance
ROOM TYPES: Apartments Triples, Studio Doubles (limited availability)
UNIT CAPACITY: 2 or 3 occupants
TOTAL CAPACITY: 150 residents
DEMOGRAPHICS: First-year
LOCATION: Fifth Avenue Neighborhood
AMENITIES: Kitchens and bathroom in the rooms, renovated movie room, computer cluster, wireless Internet, laundry facilities, exercise room
AIR-CONDITIONING: Central, in-unit
Resident Assistants (RAs): 3
Residence on Fifth Color = Pink
Residence on Fifth Animal = Flamingo
jasujazmudzinski
Stever is a first-year residence hall that boasts having more common lounge space than any other residence on campus and was the first campus building to be designated a "green" building. With the goal of significantly reducing and/or eliminating the negative impact of the building on the environment, it received a silver rating for Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) from the U.S. Green Building Council in September 2003. The building has individually controlled, year-round heating and cooling options in all rooms with enhanced air exchange and ventilation systems. All public spaces and community baths have automatic lighting and flow controls.
Stever House at a Glance
ROOM TYPE: Traditional double
UNIT OCCUPANCY: 2 occupants
TOTAL CAPACITY: 254 residents
DEMOGRAPHICS: First-year
LOCATION: Morewood Avenue Neighborhood
AMENITIES: Reading and study rooms, recreation areas, fitness room, kitchen, dining room, vending machines, laundry facilities
AIR-CONDITIONING: Central, in-unit.  Year-around heating and cooling options in all rooms with enhanced air exchange and ventilation systems.
Resident Assistants (RAs): 9
Color: Green
Symbol: Cactus
jasujazmudzinski
Upper-class Housing at CMU
As a current, transfer, or international student, you have a number of housing options available to you: on-campus housing, Greek housing, or off-campus-housing. After your first year, we hope you choose to continue living on campus, which, as research shows, significantly contributes to academic success and graduating on time. Specifically at Carnegie Mellon, living on campus provides:
A 24/7 community of support
A place where safety and security are top priorities
A residential experience that fosters personal development, meaningful engagement, and life-long relationships
Convenience to all academic buildings, the student center, and 30+ dining locations
Fully furnished rooms and spaces
All-inclusive living, including housing, utilities, cable, and Internet
Amenities such as laundry, maintenance, housekeeping and fitness facilities
Explore Carnegie Mellon's Upper-class Housing Options
Fairfax Apartments
Fifth & Clyde House
Fifth Neville Apartments
Forbes Beeler Apartments
The Highlands Apartments
Margaret Morrison Apartments
Morewood Gardens
Neville Apartments
Resnik House
Roselawn Apartments
Spirit House
West Wing
Woodlawn Apartments
jasujazmudzinski
Farnam Jahanian
President, Henry L. Hillman President's Chair
Farnam Jahanian is the 10th president of Carnegie Mellon University, where he holds the Henry L. Hillman President’s Chair. He is currently serving in his second five-year term as president and holds three faculty appointments: in CMU’s School of Computer Science, College of Engineering, and the H. John Heinz III College of Information Systems and Public Policy.

A nationally recognized computer scientist, entrepreneur, public servant and academic leader, Jahanian has advanced a number of key priorities at the university and in higher education more broadly. 

He has overseen the expansion of Carnegie Mellon’s research enterprise, which is now widely recognized as a global force in driving innovation, emerging technologies and industry collaboration and draws in more than $600 million in external funding annually. In addition, he has led the most ambitious evolution of campus to date, with the university investing nearly $1 billion by 2027 to enhance its infrastructure in support of its education and research missions, as well as the most successful capital campaign in the university’s history, with nearly $2.5 billion dollars raised so far.  

Beyond these achievements, Jahanian has spearheaded efforts to ensure that all deserving, talented and high-achieving students have a pathway to affording and attending CMU for their undergraduate journey. The university continues to expand its suite of access and affordability initiatives, recently adding the Tartan Scholars and CMU Pathway programs for undergraduates as well as the CMU Rales Fellows program for graduate-level STEM students. As a result, Carnegie Mellon has grown its investment in undergraduate financial aid by more than 86% in the last 10 years while continuing to meet 100% of demonstrated financial need for all undergraduate U.S. citizens and permanent residents, regardless of their family income.

A key leader in higher education, Jahanian also drives important conversations and initiatives aimed at helping the field adapt to the future of work in the age of automation and AI while advocating for the role of universities in bolstering the footprint of U.S. innovation. He has testified before Congress on a broad range of topics, including cybersecurity, next generation computing and big data analytics and champions basic research as uniquely central to an innovation ecosystem that drives global competitiveness and strengthens national security.  

In 2014, Jahanian first joined CMU as vice president for research, where he nurtured excellence in research, scholarship and creative activities. In his subsequent role as the university’s provost and chief academic officer — a position he held from May 2015 to June 2017 — he had broad responsibility for leading CMU’s schools, colleges, institutes and campuses and was a significant driver of planning and implementing long-range institutional and academic priorities. 

Prior to CMU, Jahanian led the National Science Foundation Directorate for Computer and Information Science and Engineering (CISE) from 2011 to 2014. With a budget of over $900 million, CISE was — and is — home to a number of programs and initiatives focused on advancing research and cyber infrastructure, fostering broad interdisciplinary collaborations and contributing to the development of a computing and information technology workforce. During this time, Jahanian also served as co-chair of the Networking and Information Technology Research and Development Subcommittee of the National Science and Technology Council Committee on Technology, where he coordinated and oversaw the research and development activities of 17 government agencies.

From 1993 to 2014, Jahanian was on faculty at the University of Michigan, where he held the Edward S. Davidson Collegiate Professorship in the College of Engineering. He also served as chair for Computer Science and Engineering from 2007 to 2011 and director of the Software Systems Laboratory from 1997 to 2000. In 2001, he co-founded the software company Arbor Networks, serving as its president and chief scientist until 2004 and chairman until the company’s acquisition in 2010. Prior to this, he held research and management positions at the IBM Thomas J. Watson Research Center.

A sought-after thought leader, Jahanian has participated on dozens of national, state and regional advisory boards and panels. He has served on the President’s Export Council (2023), Pennsylvania Governor-elect Josh Shapiro’s transition team (2022) and chaired the National Research Council’s Computer Science and Telecommunications Board (2015 to 2021). He is also active with the World Economic Forum, serving as a member of the Global University Leaders Forum and as a member of the Global Network Advisory Board for the World Economic Forum’s Centre for the Fourth Industrial Revolution.

Beyond these engagements, Jahanian serves on the board of directors for a number of organizations, such as the Alfred P. Sloan Foundation, Highmark Health, Inc., and the Allegheny Conference on Community Development. He also sits on the executive committee of the U.S. Council on Competitiveness, is a trustee of the Dietrich Foundation and serves as co-chair of the Southwestern Pennsylvania New Economy Collaborative, which is the governing board for implementing the coalition’s $62.7M Build Back Better Regional Challenge Grant.

Jahanian has earned numerous awards over his career to date, including a National Science Foundation CAREER Award (1995), University of Michigan College of Engineering Teaching Excellence Award (1998), Amoco Teaching Award (2000), DARPA Innovation Award (2000), EECS Outstanding Faculty Achievement Award (2005), the State of Michigan Governor’s University Award for Commercialization Excellence (2005) and the ACM SIGCOMM Test of Time Award (2008 and 2021). In 2015, he earned the Computing Research Association’s Distinguished Service Award and was honored in Carnegie Corporation of New York’s “Great Immigrants — The Pride of America” campaign (2016).

The author of over 100 published research papers, Jahanian is a celebrated scholar on a range of topics, including distributed computing, network security and network protocols and architectures. His research has been supported by numerous major sponsors, including the NSF, DHS, DARPA, NSA, ONR as well as companies that include Cisco, Intel, Google, Boeing, VeriSign, Hitachi, Hewlett-Packard and IBM.

Jahanian holds a master’s degree and a Ph.D. in Computer Science from the University of Texas at Austin. He is a Fellow of the Association for Computing Machinery, the Institute of Electrical and Electronic Engineers and the American Association for the Advancement of Science.
jasujazmudzinski
CMU President's Staff
Kelly Elder: Executive Administrator and Director of Administrative Operations
Tricia O'Reilly: Chief of Staff
Pam Eichenbaum: Deputy Chief of Staff
Scott Andes: Senior Strategic Advisor for Economic Development
Chelsea Blackburn Cohen: Senior Manager, Strategic Initiatives and Engagement
Bethany Cody: Senior Director, Executive Communications
Kelsee Knox: Executive Assistant to the Chief of Staff
Kathleen Sandusky: Senior Manager of Executive Communications
jasujazmudzinski
Subset of President Farnham's Letter Enhancing Enterprise Creation, Entrepreneurship and Industry Engagement at CMU:
Dear Faculty and Staff Colleagues,
Carnegie Mellon has always thrived by anticipating change and positioning ourselves at the forefront of discovery, creativity and innovation.
In that spirit, I write today with an important update — and offer a short summary below, followed by the full message.
Here are four key takeaways from this message:
In fall 2023, I convened a Presidential Advisory Board to evaluate enterprise creation, entrepreneurship and industry engagement. Over 18 months, the group engaged 150 stakeholders and delivered a set of recommendations to strengthen CMU’s leadership and reduce friction in discovery, translation and impact.
The PAB’s final report highlighted four priority areas: (1) more integrated, strategic industry engagement; (2) renewed approaches to technology transfer and commercialization; (3) modernized research support systems; and (4) expanded support for entrepreneurship and enterprise creation across the university.
CMU has already begun implementing many of these recommendations, including selecting a new enterprise research support system, reimagining research support staffing structures, streamlining industry partnerships, benchmarking IP policies, and expanding support for research-based start-ups.
Looking ahead, CMU will roll out a fully integrated research support system, update IP and licensing policies, align industry and federal partnerships, and strengthen the Swartz Center’s role as a university-wide hub for entrepreneurship — all in alignment with our Strategic Framework and long-term research priorities.
To help CMU maintain its edge in a rapidly evolving environment, in the fall of 2023, I convened a Presidential Advisory Board (PAB) on Enterprise Creation, Entrepreneurship and Industry Engagement. I charged the PAB with assessing CMU’s current strengths, identifying areas where we must be more agile and effective, and proposing strategies that will allow us to better support discovery, translation and a broader impact. Co-chaired by Vice President for Research Theresa Mayer and trustee Ron Bianchini, the PAB included faculty, staff, alumni, trustees and external partners. This group spent 18 months on a rigorous process that combined quantitative benchmarking with qualitative engagement, including interviews with 150 internal and external stakeholders. The result is a set of reflections and recommendations that provide a roadmap for strengthening our research and innovation ecosystem.
jasujazmudzinski
Subset of President Farnham's Letter Enhancing Enterprise Creation, Entrepreneurship and Industry Engagement at CMU
PAB Recommendations
I believe a great university shows its strength through a relentless pursuit of excellence, never resting on past achievements but continually adapting and improving. The PAB was designed in that spirit — to push us forward and build on CMU’s remarkable success so we are ready to lead as the pace of innovation accelerates. Importantly, the Advisory Board acknowledged the many things CMU is doing right — from our world-class research and entrepreneurial ecosystem to the collaborative spirit of our faculty and students — and urged us to build on these strengths as we look to the future. Today, the current political headwinds and shifting industry dynamics have made the PAB’s recommendations even more relevant and urgent.
In its final report to me, the Advisory Board shared thoughtful reflections and recommendations across four areas:
Industry Engagement: The Advisory Board acknowledged progress but also emphasized that industry today expects deeper, more holistic relationships with universities, and that these partnerships must operate at the speed of business. To attract investment from major companies and amplify our impact, CMU must develop a more integrated model for industry partnerships, reduce silos between colleges and central units, clarify roles, and address long-standing barriers such as in contracting and licensing.
Technology Transfer and Commercialization: The Advisory Board highlighted that CMU’s once-pioneering models now need renewal to remain competitive in a fast-moving innovation economy. To reduce friction and disincentives for technology transfer and startup creation, we should adapt our intellectual property (IP) frameworks — including licensing, equity and royalty-sharing terms — to better align with sector norms and investor expectations.
Research Support Services: Stakeholders interviewed by the PAB pointed to outdated systems and overly complex processes as barriers to collaboration and agility. To remain competitive, CMU must modernize with best-in-class enterprise systems, streamline processes to reduce administrative burden for faculty and staff, and recruit, develop and retain an industry-leading workforce.
Entrepreneurship and Enterprise Creation: The Advisory Board singled out the important role of our Swartz Center for Entrepreneurship as a campus-wide resource and recommended a more integrated approach that allows the center to better connect to, and coordinate across, CMU’s centers, programs and resources. The PAB encouraged us to expand end-to-end support to launch and grow investment-ready start-ups from high-potential research, and to establish a university-wide alumni mentor program to support campus entrepreneurs. The report also underscored the impact of the Swartz Center in fostering a vibrant regional innovation ecosystem.
Before describing the progress made and work ahead, I wish to acknowledge the extraordinary leadership of Theresa Mayer and the collaborative engagement of colleagues across our schools and colleges. The deans and associate deans of research have been indispensable partners in this work, helping to shape priorities and ensure that changes are responsive to faculty and student needs. I am also grateful to our Board of Trustees for its partnership, endorsement and continued guidance as we move this work forward.
jasujazmudzinski
Subset of President Farnham's Letter Enhancing Enterprise Creation, Entrepreneurship and Industry Engagement at CMU
Progress to Date
With the benefit of the Advisory Board’s recommendations, we have already begun to strengthen the foundation of our research enterprise.
We have made significant progress on enhancing research support services. The Office of the Vice President for Research (OVPR) has reorganized to improve alignment and better serve faculty, and we have selected a new enterprise system that will streamline proposal and award management and compliance, as well as provide greater visibility into research portfolios.
We have pursued a more strategic approach to industry partnerships, increasing collaboration across schools and simplifying engagement pathways. These efforts have already led to growth in campus-wide industry partnerships.
We conducted both internal and external stakeholder interviews and completed a comprehensive analysis of licensing terms and IP policies, benchmarking against 20 top-tier universities. We are currently formulating more creative models that facilitate transfer of knowledge and technology from our research labs.
We have increased support for research-based startups, including early-stage ventures in AI, robotics and other deep tech. We consolidated Swartz Center’s Entrepreneurs-in-Residence program to better serve faculty and students and launched new events such as Lab-to-Market to bring together CMU founders with investors.
We launched a faculty- and college-driven effort to meet rapidly evolving computing and data needs, including a successful pilot investment in a large cloud-based GPU cluster, which significantly expands our computing capacity and capacity for AI applications.
Next Phase of Work
We are entering an exciting new phase of this work. After a year of preparation, supported by countless faculty and staff in the schools and colleges, we are beginning the implementation of a new, fully integrated enterprise research support system that will streamline pre-award proposal submissions, award negotiation, regulatory compliance and post-award grant management. Vice President Mayer will share more details in the coming days about this system, as well as a comprehensive effort to upgrade the processes and structures that support our research enterprise. This work will not be easy, but tackling this will allow us to respond more quickly to opportunities, reduce administrative friction and enable deeper interdisciplinary collaboration across our research community. Vice President for Finance Angela Blanton and Vice President for Information Technology Stan Waddell both have been critical to developing this roadmap in partnership with the OVPR, and I am grateful for their contributions.
A number of strategic efforts inspired by the PAB are also underway:
We are aligning industry engagement with federal partnerships, recognizing that our ability to partner effectively with both sectors will be critical to advancing national priorities and strengthening CMU’s impact. We are taking steps to be more strategic in how we coordinate across these channels — including examining how positions and functions might be enhanced — so that our industry and federal partnerships reinforce one another and maximize CMU’s impact.
We are adapting CMU’s licensing terms to better reflect the evolving expectations of different industries and to take a more creative approach to how we structure agreements — ensuring we are both facilitating the transfer of technologies while preserving the interest of CMU researchers.
We have assembled a university-wide task force to work with the Faculty Senate on updating our IP policy, which has not been revised in 40 years. This process is necessary to remain competitive, especially in an increasingly open-source environment.
We are taking steps to strengthen the role of the Swartz Center in start-up creation and to enhance its impact as an integrated and campus-wide engine for entrepreneurship. These long-term strategic actions include expanding alumni mentorship networks, proof-of-concept and start-up gap funding, and faculty and student engagement.
These efforts are deeply connected to the goals of our Strategic Framework, which calls on us to expand the frontiers of research and discovery, become the partner of choice across sectors and industries, and strengthen CMU’s agility and resilience through aligned systems and empowered people.
This work is complex, and there is still much to do. But each step we take is strengthening our university — making CMU better prepared to lead the future of research and innovation. Once again, I wish to thank the Presidential Advisory Board and the Board of Trustees for their dedication and insights. Their contributions have been invaluable in charting a path forward for CMU.
Warm regards,
Farnam Jahanian
President
Henry L. Hillman President’s Chair
jasujazmudzinski
Office of the Provost and Chief Academic Officer
As the university's chief academic officer, the provost has broad responsibility for leading CMU's schools, institutes and campuses and is instrumental in long-range institutional and academic planning and implementation. The provost also oversees academic and budgetary policy and priorities, ensures the quality of the student body and maintains educational excellence. In addition, the provost has oversight responsibility for recruiting, hiring and advancement of faculty and academic administrators and for the university's promotion and tenure of the 1,500 members of CMU's faculty. 
Supporting these efforts and initiatives is an extraordinary group of academic and administrative leaders, including deans, vice provosts and key faculty and professional staff who are committed to continuing CMU's success and tradition in education, research and societal impact.
jasujazmudzinski
Provost Priorities
The university's strategic plan is the foundation for the provost's priorities, which were derived, reinforced and prioritized through ongoing listening sessions with the Carnegie Mellon community. These seven areas of focus aim to strengthen the pillars of our institution. From student success and experience to inclusive excellence, our goal is to create a more holistically supportive and welcoming environment for the campus community.
jasujazmudzinski
James H. Garrett, Jr: Provost and Chief Academic Officer
David P. Bennett: Vice President for University Advancement
Angela Blanton: Vice President for Finance and Chief Financial Officer
Gina Casalegno: Vice President for Student Affairs and Dean of Students
Becky Culyba: Vice Provost for Strategic Initiatives and Chief of Staff to the Provost
Mary Jo Dively: Vice President and General Counsel, and Secretary of the Corporation
Tysen Kendig: Vice President for University Communications and Marketing
Charles A. Kennedy: Chief Investment Officer
Theresa Mayer: Vice President for Research
Tricia O'Reilly: Chief of Staff to the President
Stan Waddell: Vice President for Information Technology and Chief Information Officer
Daryl Weinert: Vice President for Operations
jasujazmudzinski
CMU Deans
Isabelle Bajeux-Besnainou: Dean, Tepper School of Business
Vijayakumar Bhagavatula: Interim Dean, College of Engineering
Gina Casalegno: Dean of Students and Vice President, Student Affairs
Tani Castañeda: Dean, Admission Vice Provost for Enrollment Management
Martial Hebert: Dean, School of Computer Science
Kristen Martin: Dean, Heinz College of Information Systems and Public Policy
Mary Ellen Poole: Dean, College of Fine Arts
Richard Scheines: Dean, Dietrich College of Humanities and Social Sciences
Barbara Shinn-Cunningham: Dean, Mellon College of Science
Michael Trick: Dean, Qatar Campus
Keith Webster: Dean, University Libraries, Director of Emerging and Integrative Media Initiatives 
jasujazmudzinski
David A. Coulter served as Vice Chairman, Managing Director and Senior Advisor at Warburg Pincus LLC, focusing on the firm’s financial services practice from 2005–2014. He continues to serve as a Special Limited Partner to Warburg Pincus. Mr. Coulter retired in September 2005 as Vice Chairman of J.P. Morgan & Chase Co. He previously served as Executive Chairman of its investment bank, asset and wealth management, and private equity business. Mr. Coulter was a member of the firm’s three-person Office of the Chairman and also its Executive Committee. Mr. Coulter came to J.P. Morgan Chase via its July 2000 acquisition of The Beacon Group, a small merchant banking operation. Before joining The Beacon Group, Mr. Coulter was the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of the BankAmerica Corporation and Bank of America NT & SA. His career at Bank of America was from 1976 to 1998 and covered a wide range of banking activities. He was also an active member of the Federal Reserve Advisory Council and the International Monetary Conference. He served on the board of Aeolus Re, MBIA, Mastercard International, Webster Bank, Sterling Financial, the Strayer Corporation, Santander Asset Management, and Triton International. He currently is on the board of Varo Money, Inc., ModivCare, and Innovu. He also serves on the boards of Lincoln Center, Carnegie Mellon University, Asia Society of Northern California, and the American Prairie Reserve. He received both his B.S. and his M.S. from Carnegie Mellon University and currently serves as a Trustee for Carnegie Mellon. He is the current Chair of the Board of trustees
jasujazmudzinski
Officers of the Corporation consist of the following: chair of the Board of Trustees, two vice chairs of the Board of Trustees, the president, chief financial officer, secretary, treasurer and vice presidents.
The duties and powers of all officers are determined by the Board. The chief financial officer, the treasurer and the secretary will hold office for one year and until their successors shall assume office. The chair and the vice chairs serve for a term of three years. The Board determines the length of the term the president serves. The Board may dismiss any officer for cause at any time. The election of officers takes place at each annual meeting of the Board, but officers may be elected at any meeting to fill vacancies. Any two or more offices may be held by the same person.
2025-26 Officers of the Corporation
David A. Coulter, Chair
Jeanne Cunicelli, Vice Chair
Anne M. Molloy, Vice Chair
Farnam Jahanian, President
James H. Garrett, Jr., Provost and Chief Academic Officer
David P. Bennett, Vice President for University Advancement
Angela Blanton, Vice President for Finance and Chief Financial Officer
Gina Casalegno, Vice President for Student Affairs and Dean of Students
Mary Jo Dively, Vice President and General Counsel, and Secretary of the Corporation
John Dolan, Treasurer
Tysen Kendig, Vice President for University Communications and Marketing
Charles A. Kennedy, Chief Investment Officer
Kate Lippert, Assistant Secretary of the Corporation
Theresa Mayer, Vice President for Research
Carrie Nelson, Assistant Treasurer
Stan Waddell, Vice President for Information Technology and Chief Information Officer
Daryl Weinert, Vice President for Operations
jasujazmudzinski
CMU Voting Trustees
The business, property and affairs of the Corporation are managed by or under the direction of a Board of Trustees of the Corporation.

The Board of Trustees shall consist of a minimum of 40 voting members, including ex-officio members, with the number of voting trustees to be determined from time to time by the trustees. Voting trustees members are divided into five classes; one class of trustees is elected each year at the annual meeting to succeed those whose terms expire in that year and to serve for a term of five years.

The term of each trustee typically commences on July 1 following his or her election. A trustee’s term expires on June 30 in the year in which his or her term is concluded, or June 30 following his or her 75th birthday, whichever occurs first. Upon the recommendation of the Nominating and Governance Committee, the Board of Trustees may grant the status of Emeritus/a Trustee to those members who have made distinguished contributions to the University and who have attained at least age 60 or a maximum of age 75.

2025-26 Voting Trustees
Joel Adams*, general partner, Adams Capital Management, Inc.
Lane M. Bess*, principal and founder, Bess Ventures and Advisory; chief executive officer, Deep Instinct
Ronald Bianchini, Jr.*
Keith Block*, founder & chief executive officer, Smith Point Capital
Frank Brunckhorst*, Boar's Head Provisions Co., Inc.
Gloria Chen*, chief people officer and executive vice president of employee experience, Adobe Inc.
David Coulter*, special limited partner, Warburg Pincus LLC
Nathalie Cowan, founder, Abergel Homes
Russell Crockett*, founder, Aeon Blue Technologies; founder, RTC Energy LLC
Jeanne Cunicelli*, president, UPMC Enterprises; executive vice president, UPMC
Ted Decker*, chair, president and chief executive officer, The Home Depot
Shrinivas V. Dempo*, chairman, Dempo Group of Companies
Francisco D'Souza*, co-founder and managing partner, Recognize
Howard Ellin*, partner, Skadden Arps Slate Meagher and Flom
Charlie Evans*, retired president and chief executive officer, Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago
Edward H. Frank*, executive chair, Gradient Technologies
Yoshiaki Fujimori*, chairman of the board, Oracle Japan Corporation
Ed Gainey (ex officio), mayor, City of Pittsburgh
Eric Giler*, founder and co-chief executive officer, OmniZare Imaging, Inc.
Ajei Gopal, president and chief executive officer, ANSYS, Inc.
Edward Grefenstette*, president and chief investment officer, The Dietrich Foundation
Thomas Healy*, founder and chief executive officer, Hyliion
Farnam Jahanian (ex officio), president, Carnegie Mellon University
Larry Jennings, Jr* senior managing director, ValStone Partners, LLC
Katherine Kohatsu* (ex officio), president, Andrew Carnegie Society Board
Daniel Lavelle (ex officio), president, Pittsburgh City Council
Joanna Lovering* (ex officio), president, Carnegie Mellon Alumni Association Board
J. Michael McQuade, director of the program on emerging technology, scientific advancement, and global policy, The Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs
Anne M. Molloy, executive director, Posner Fine Arts Foundation
Brian Olsavsky*, senior vice president and chief financial officer, Amazon.com
Shalini Ray*, managing leader, Guidehouse
KristieAnne Reed*, chief executive officer, Jerry Bruckheimer Television
Sam Reiman, director, Richard King Mellon Foundation
Jewell Parker Rhodes*, founding artistic director of the Virginia G. Piper Center for Creative Writing and Narrative Studies Professor, Arizona State University
Manoj Singh*, retired chief operating officer, Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Limited
Luke Skurman*, chief executive officer, Niche
Lip-Bu Tan, chairman, Walden International
Lowell Taylor, (ex officio), chair, Faculty Senate
David Tepper*, president and founder, Appaloosa Management LP
Thomas Tull, co-chairman, TWG Global
Tamara Tunie*, actor, director and producer
* Alumnus/a
jasujazmudzinski
Upon the recommendation of the Nominating and Governance Committee, the Board of Trustees may grant the status of emeritus/a trustee to those members who have made distinguished contributions to the university and who have attained at least age 60 or a maximum of age 75. The Board of Trustees may change the age at which trustees must be granted emeritus/a status or resign from the Board.


Emeritus/a trustees are welcome at all full board meetings; all meetings of the Advancement, Educational Affairs and Enrollment, and Research, Innovation and Entrepreneurship Committees of the Board of Trustees; receive all notices, minutes and reports of said meetings, are free to participate in discussions, but will be without a vote on any matter. Emeritus trustees are welcome at all Board and university events.

2025-2026 Emeriti Trustees
John R. Bertucci*, chairman emeritus, MKS Instruments, Inc.
Carol R. Brown, former president, Pittsburgh Cultural Trust
Robert M. Brown, III*, retired managing director, Lehman Brothers
Eric Cooper
Erroll B. Davis, Jr.*, president and board chair, african american heritage house, Chautauqua Institution
W. Logan Dickerson*, president, Lindwood Farm, Inc. & Protos Foods, Inc.
Philip L. Dowd*, Sherick Enterprises, LLC
Dina Dublon*
William B. Ellis*, retired chairman and chief executive officer, Northeast Utilities
Cynthia Friedman, co-owner, Union Real Estate Company of Pittsburgh
Claire W. Gargalli
Richard D. Hamilton*, retired director of product supply, Procter and Gamble
Teresa Heinz, chairman, Heinz Family Foundation; chair emeritus, The Heinz Endowments
T. Jerome Holleran*, retired chairman, Precision Medical Products, Inc.
Torrence M. Hunt, Jr., The Elmhurst Group and the Roy A. Hunt Foundation
Tod S. Johnson*, managing director, Duo Partners
Patricia Askwith Kenner*, president, Campus Coach Lines
David M. Kirr*, partner, Kirr, Marbach & Company
Raymond J. Lane, partner emeritus, GreatPoint Ventures
Edward Lucente*
Thomas A. McConomy*, retired chairman of the board, Calgon Carbon Corporation
Jack E. McGrath*, retired senior vice president, Booz, Allen & Hamilton
Regina Gouger Miller*, owner/artist, Ginger and Spice/Regina Gouger Miller Studio
Alessandro Ovi, executive vice president, Fondazione Popoli
E. Kears Pollock*, retired executive vice president, PPG Industries, Inc.
David Porges, retired chairman and chief executive officer, Equitrans Midstream Corporation
Charles J. Queenan, Jr., chairman emeritus, K&L Gates LLP
James E. Rohr, retired chairman and chief executive officer, The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc.
Joyce Bowie Scott*, J. Bowie Scott Studio
David S. Shapira, chairman emeritus, Board of Directors, Giant Eagle, Inc.
Ajit Shetty*, retired chairman of the board, Janssen Pharmaceuticals
J. Lea Hillman Simonds, chair, Hillman Family Foundations
Raymond Smith*, chairman, Rothschild Continuation Investments
Donald E. Stitzenberg*, principal, CBA Associates
Mary Ann Ulishney*
Paula Kauffman Wagner*, producer/owner, Chestnut Ridge Productions
** Alumnus/a
jasujazmudzinski
Awards won by CMU Faculty and Alumni
Carnegie Mellon University's faculty and alumni have been recognized with some of the highest awards and honors in their respective fields, a testament to their pioneering work. 
American Academy of Arts & Sciences: 26
American Association for the Advancement of Science: 44
The Franklin Institute Awards: 11
Guggenheim Fellowships: 24
Honda Prize: 1
MacArthur Foundation Fellows: 2
National Academy of Engineering: 71
National Academy of Medicine: 6
National Academy of Public Administration: 2
National Academy of Sciences: 22
National Book Award: 1
National Medal of Science: 2
National Medal of Technology and Innovation: 6
Vannevar Bush Award: 1
jasujazmudzinski
Student Awards
At Carnegie Mellon University, we take great pride in our students' remarkable achievements, which highlight their unwavering commitment, brilliance and the rigorous, interdisciplinary education they receive.
Churchill Scholarships: 11
Fulbright Scholarship: 138
Gates Cambridge Scholarship: 3
Goldwater Scholarship: 54
Marshall Scholarship: 5
Rhodes Scholarship: 4
Truman Scholarship: 6
Udall Scholarship: 3
jasujazmudzinski
The average financial aid offer at CMU is $59,017
CMU bolstered our investment in undergraduate financial aid by over 86% in the last 10 years – from $75.7 million in 2015 to $141.1 million in 2024.
$114,704 is the Average Post-Graduation Salary at CMU. 90% of CMUU 2024 graduates were employed or continued their education within 6 months after graduation.
jasujazmudzinski
CMU and NVIDIA to Lead Joint Research Center for Robotics, Autonomy & AI
Carnegie Mellon University has partnered with NVIDIA and the University of Pittsburgh to establish the NVIDIA AI Tech Community in Pittsburgh, advancing innovation in robotics, autonomy, and AI. This collaboration includes two new joint research centers, with CMU focusing on robotics and autonomy, enabling researchers to leverage NVIDIA’s AI expertise and technology. The initiative will support local startups, enhance AI development across sectors, and position Pittsburgh as a leader in responsible AI innovation.

Researchers Develop First AI-enabled Wearable to Detect Drug Errors
CMU researchers have developed the first AI-powered wearable camera to detect medication errors, aiming to improve patient safety in hospitals. The device alerts healthcare professionals to potential mistakes in real time, enhancing accuracy during drug administration. This innovative technology could significantly reduce error rates during drug administration under stressful situations, underscoring CMU’s role in advancing AI applications in healthcare.
jasujazmudzinski
Carnegie Mellon University has 7 schools/colleges.
1. College of Engineering
2. Mellon College of Science
3. College of Fine Arts
4. School of Computer Science
5. Dietrich College of Humanities & Social Sciences
6. Tepper School of Business
7. Heinz College of Information Systems & Public Policy
jasujazmudzinski
Since our inception over 50 years ago, the Computer Science Department’s mission has remained steadfast: to lead in computer science research and education that has real-world impact — to push the frontiers of the field and produce the next generation’s leaders.
Values
In the Computer Science Department, we believe that our success rests on these four pillars.
Leadership in education. From the beginning, we designed our programs to prepare our students to be leaders in academia and industry. Our Ph.D. program believes strongly in research from day one, and we consistently monitor our graduate curriculum to ensure that it’s a perfect balance of rigor and flexibility. Our enthusiasm for undergraduate education is unparalleled, and we consistently rank as the top undergraduate computer science program in the country.
The quality and impact of our research. We strive for both high-quality, high impact research, collaboratively and across disciplines. We build things for real users with real-world impact. We think big, taking risks in our research agendas to support uncommon research areas, to start uncharted research areas, and to dream of projects beyond what a single faculty member could accomplish alone.
A supportive culture that brings out the best in people. We live by the Reasonable Person Principle, which relies on mutual trust and support among all faculty, staff and students. We take collective responsibility for our students and faculty, through shared oversight of grad students and faculty processes, like assigning teaching duties. We presume success, and admit or hire only those candidates we expect to excel.
Diversity. The percentage of women out of all students receiving undergraduate degrees in computer science at Carnegie Mellon now hovers around 33 percent — almost twice the national average.
jasujazmudzinski
CMU Computer Science Department History (1956-1967)
1956: Herbert A. Simon, associate dean of Carnegie Institute of Technology’s business school, joins forces with several faculty members to establish the Computation Center. Alan Perlis (S’42), a Pittsburgh native and MCS graduate, is brought from Purdue University to be the center’s director.
August 1956: The university’s first computer, an IBM 650, is delivered to basement of the Graduate School of Industrial Administration building.
1958: Carnegie Tech offers the first freshman-level computer programming course in the nation. It is taught by Alan Perlis.
1961: The Systems and Communication Sciences program is established. This interdisciplinary program combines computer science, mathematics, psychology, business and electrical engineering, and provides the exams for Carnegie Mellon’s first computer science-related Ph.D. students.
1962: CIT receives a $600,000 contract to research the theory of computer programming, AI, interpretation of natural languages, man-computer interactions and design of computing machinery from the Advanced Research Projects Agency of the Defense Department.
1965: Carnegie Mellon establishes the Computer Science Department with the support of a $5 million grant from the Richard K. Mellon Foundation. Alan Perlis is its first head. The first students enroll in the Ph.D. program in CS.
1967: The first computer science doctoral degrees are awarded.
jasujazmudzinski
CMU Computer Science Department History (1967-1999)
1971: Joseph Traub takes over as head of the computer science department.
1975: Herb Simon and Allen Newell win the Turing Award, often called the Nobel Prize of computer science.
1978: Herb Simon wins the Nobel Prize in Economics for decision-making theory.
1979: A. Nico Habermann takes over as head of the computer science department when Joseph Traub leaves to lead the newly formed department at Columbia University.
1983: The Andrew Project begins, making Carnegie Mellon the first wired campus.  One outcome was AFS, a widely used network file system.
1985: The Computer Science Department becomes a floating unit at Carnegie Mellon, not tethered to a particular school or college. 
1985: Carnegie Mellon develops and launches its groundbreaking “Andrew” campus-wide communications network, one of the first in the nation. Leadership in developing and implementing the network came from the Computer Science Department, most notably from a campus-wide committee chaired by Allen Newell.
1988: The School of Computer Science is established. Nico Haberman is the first dean.
1989–90: The School of Computer Science creates an undergraduate program.
1992: Raj Reddy becomes dean of the School of Computer Science.
1999: James Morris (CS’63) becomes dean of the School of Computer Science.
jasujazmudzinski
CMU Computer Science Department History (2000-Present)
2000: The Wireless Andrew network is installed — the first of its kind in the country.
2000: BusinessWeek and Yahoo! Internet Life magazines rate Carnegie Mellon as the Most Wired University.
2000: US News ranks the graduate CS program #3, tied with UC-Berkeley.
2002: Randal Bryant and David O’Hallaron publish a “definitive” textbook for computer programming based on the 15-213 course. It's used in 18 schools in its first year.
2002: SCS is ranked #1 by US News & World Report for its computer science Ph.D. program (tied with MIT, Stanford and UC-Berkeley).
2002: Intel opens a research lab in conjunction with Carnegie Mellon, with SCS’s M. Satyanarayanan (CS’79, ’83) as director.
2003: SCS Day, the first undergraduate talent showcase, is held on campus.
2004: Randal Bryant becomes dean of the School of Computer Science.
2004: Jeannette Wing is announced as head of the Computer Science Department.
2004: Carnegie Mellon opens a branch campus at Education City in Doha, Qatar, offering undergraduate education in computer science and business. Former Robotics Institute Director Chuck Thorpe (CS’85) becomes the first dean.
2004: Carnegie Mellon receives a $20 million gift from the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation to help fund construction of a new building dedicated to expanding the horizons of computer science.
2005: Google announces plans to open an engineering lab in Pittsburgh in collaboration with Carnegie Mellon, with SCS professor Andrew Moore as director.
2007: Professor Randy Pausch delivers his "Last Lecture," which goes viral and receives more than 17 million (now) hits on YouTube. His lecture is later turned into a book.
2007: Peter Lee becomes head of the Computer Science Department.
2008: The Henry L. Hillman Foundation Gives Carnegie Mellon $10 Million for a research building in the new computer science complex.
2008: Ed Clarke wins the Turing Award, computing's highest honor.
2008: Carnegie Mellon and Sun Microsystems collaborate to support continued development of the Alice programming environment.
2009: The Gates Center for Computer Science and the Hillman Center for Future-Generation Technologies is completed and dedicated by Bill Gates in September.
2009: Disney honors Randy Pausch with a memorial fellowship for Carnegie Mellon Computer Science and Fine Arts students.
2009: Carnegie Mellon computer scientists Ed Clarke and André Platzer develop a method for verifying the safety of computer-controlled devices.
2010: Jeannette Wing returns to her role as head of the Computer Science Department after two years with the National Science Foundation.
2013: Frank Pfenning is named head of the Computer Science Department. 
2014: SCS celebrates 25 years & Andrew Moore becomes dean of SCS.
2015: The Computer Science Department celebrates 50 years of changing the world!
2018: Srini Seshan is named head of the Computer Science Department
jasujazmudzinski
Celebrating CMU’s past, present and future Make plans to attend Homecoming Weekend, Nov. 6-8, to celebrate 125 years of Carnegie Mellon University. In addition to traditional festivities like Spirit Day and the football game, CMU125 at Homecoming Weekend features special events and opportunities for Tartans of all ages to celebrate this remarkable moment in CMU history.
jasujazmudzinski