This is the schedule of the Little Italy Days Festival
Thursday, August 14
First National Bank Stage at Cedarville & Liberty
5:30pm Jerry DeMaria - Singing Italian songs, Sinatra, Dean Martin, Louis Prima and more!
6:00pm Celebrity Bocce Tournament - Pittsburgh politicians Irish vs Italians plus Pittsburgh media/entertainment personalities

Friday, August 15
First National Bank Stage at Cedarville & Liberty
5:30pm Marco Fiorante Direct from Italy - Lyric tenor from Cellino San Marco, Italy singing Italian Opera
6:30pm Bon Journey - Tribute to Bon Jovi and Journey—Jon Bon Jovi is Italian!

Saturday, August 16
First National Bank Stage at Cedarville & Liberty
12:15pm Rand Galioto as Elvis - Pittsburgh's #1 Elvis Impersonator, Bloomfield based
2:00pm Best Pizza in Bloomfield Competition - Featuring Angelo's Pizzeria, Caliente Pizza & Draft House, and Pizza Italia
2:15pm Bloomfield Alliance Presents Bloomfield Memories & Trivia - Hosted by Rick DeCarlo, also honoring lifetime community commitment awards to Janet Scullion and Sister Mary John
3:30pm John Lupone - Italian Opera Vocalist, Bloomfield native
6:00pm Magic Moments - Pittsburgh's #1 Oldies Band, Bloomfield based
Froggy's Stage at Taylor & Liberty
12:30pm Cat Tedder - Powerful vocalist singing Italian songs and pop hits of yesterday and today
3:00pm Pizza Acrobatics - 2x World Champion Matt Hickey of Caliente Pizza & Draft House
4:00pm The Nation's #1 Earth, Wind & Fire Tribute Band - Let's Groove Tonight
7:00pm Mia Z - Finalist from NBC's The Voice performing with her band
First Commonwealth Stage at Gross & Liberty
12:00pm East End Kids - Pittsburgh's premiere teen song & dance ensemble
1:30pm Joni Marie - Soprano opera vocalist
3:00pm Elias Khouri - Talented young guitarist and vocalist
6:30pm Bloomfield Boyz -One of Pittsburgh's best oldies and variety bands, Bloomfield based

Sunday, August 17
First National Bank Stage at Cedarville & Liberty
12:00pm Dom & Eva - Italian, pop, and much more!
2:30pm Mirella the Musician - Authentic Italian Accordionist
Froggy's Stage at Taylor & Liberty
12:00pm Sloane Simon - Finalist from NBC's The Voice
2:30pm Tribute to Gloria Estefan and the Disco Divas
3:30pm America’s #1 Jacksons Tribute Band Dancing Machine - Performing the music of Michael, Janet, and the Jackson 5
First Commonwealth Stage at Gross & Liberty
11:00pm Miss Little Italy Pagaent
2:00pm Mojo Hand - High-energy band with killer grooves, Bloomfield based
Accordionist Hank Edwardo strolling throughout the event
jasujazmudzinski

WHEN IS LITTLE ITALY DAYS? August 14, 15, 16 & 17, 2025
WHAT ARE THE HOURS OF THE FESTIVAL? Thursday 5:00pm-9:00pm, Friday noon-9:00pm, Saturday noon-9:00pm and Sunday noon-5:00pm
IS IT FREE? Yes, Little Italy Days is completely free to attend!
WHERE IS LITTLE ITALY DAYS? On Liberty Ave in the Bloomfield, Pittsburgh PA. The center of the festival is near First National Bank at 4724 Liberty Ave, Pittsburgh, PA 15224
ARE THE LOCAL BUSINESSES OPEN DURING THE EVENT? Yes, we encourage you to patronize local Bloomfield businesses while at Little Italy Days and throughout the year!
WHERE ARE THE RESTROOMS? Portable restrooms are located at every intersection throughout the festival.
ARE EVENTS CANCELED DUE TO RAIN? The festival is rain or shine, however, depending on the severity of the weather acts may be canceled or rescheduled for the safety of the performers.
IS THERE PARKING? Detailed parking options are listed Parking & Street Closures section of the website.
ARE BICYCLES PERMITTED? On Saturday & Sunday Liberty Ave will be open only to pedestrians, but biking is a great way to get to the festival and avoid the hassle of parking. Bike parking will be available at both ends of the festival – at Liberty & Aspen and Liberty & Taylor.
CAN I BRING MY DOG? We don’t recommend bringing dogs because of the size and density of the crowd. Of course service dogs are always welcome.
jasujazmudzinski

Little Italy Days started in 2002 to celebrate Bloomfield’s Italian heritage, and create a destination spot for Italian-themed entertainment and food. The event has grown through the years and is now lasts four days.
Sal Richetti, who was born and raised in Bloomfield has produced the event since 2012. Sal grew up in Bloomfield, attended Immaculate Conception grade school and Central Catholic High School. He is a local musician who has been performing for over 30 years in the tri-state area, and is the owner of Big Day Entertainment, located in the Strip District, since 1995. He is no stranger to the festival, having booked the entertainment in previous years. In 2013 he expanded it to four days. Previously, the event was always held in September, since 2013 it has mooved to August. “I wanted to give vendors more opportunity with the longer daylight, additionally; there is less chance of cold weather”
“I am excited and honored to produce this community oriented event in the community where I was born and raised. I want to be able to produce Little Italy Days so the businesses can benefit from the large crowds and everyone else including residents, organizations, schools and churches can become involved.”
Sponsors of Little Italy Days include Official Sponsors – Highmark & Allegheny Health Network, Stage Sponsor – Rohrich Shadyside Honda. Additional Sponsors include UPMC Shadyside, Children’s Hospital of UPMC, PNC Bank, First National Bank, Mascaro, Pittsburgh Brewing Co. First Commonwealth Bank and Froggy’s.
jasujazmudzinski