The Magic of Motown
Sun, Oct 19, 2025, 6:00pm
Byham Theater
The Magic of Motown is a group of powerful vocalists backed by a band delivering all the hits from: The Temptations, The Jackson Five, Diana Ross & The Supremes, Marvin Gaye, Aretha Franklin etc. With the costuming and choreography you are transported straight to Motown.
This is a rental event presented by an independent organization separate from the Pittsburgh Cultural Trust. The views and opinions expressed in the performance do not necessarily reflect those of the Pittsburgh Cultural Trust. The Trust is committed to its core values of diversity, equity, inclusion, and accessibility, including freedom of expression.
By purchasing a ticket, you are authorizing the Pittsburgh Cultural Trust to share your information with the show’s producer. Prices, shows, artists, dates, and times are subject to change.
jasujazmudzinski
Wed, Oct 15 - Thu, Oct 16, 2025
George Orwell titled his dystopian 1949 novel 1984, but it feels utterly current in 2025 when phrases like “Big Brother is watching you” might refer to Big Government, Big Business or Big Technology. Orwell is overdue for a fresh look and filmmaker Raoul Peck makes for an incisive and stirring guide. Peck has long put great writers at the center of his work, most notably in his Oscar-nominated documentary I AM NOT YOUR NEGRO about James Baldwin.
“I knew that I had a facility with words and a power of facing unpleasant facts,” Orwell wrote. Those simple assets carried him far. While he’s best known as the author of Animal Farm and 1984, this film opens us to a wider range of his writing that drew from his personal experience of poverty in Down and Out in Paris and London, of colonialism in Burmese Days, and of revolutionary uprising in Homage to Catalonia.
Peck pulls lines and impressions from these works and others, enlisting British actor Damian Lewis to embody the voice of the author. Visually, Peck uses film footage from multiple adaptations of 1984 and Animal Farm. He layers in contemporary news and documentary footage to evoke the alarming rise of totalitarianism, surveillance and government violence in our present day.
It’s both conversely reassuring and frightening to see how much analysis Orwell brought to what we’re experiencing today. At age 46, nearing death from tuberculosis, the last sentence he wrote was: “All that matters has already been written.” (From the 2025 Toronto International Film Festival)
Directed by Raoul Peck
2025 | USA | English language | DCP
Online sales end 15 minutes prior to showtime. Please visit the Harris Theater box office after this time to purchase tickets.
Concessions are available for all screenings and the Harris Theater is now BYOB. Guests who bring alcoholic beverages must be 21 years or older and provide valid photo ID upon request, a $5 charge will be issued per guest.

