Pittsburgh event (Children's Museum of Pittsburgh and MuseumLab): Children’s Museum of Pittsburgh provides innovative and inclusive museum experiences that inspire kindness, joy, creativity and curiosity for all learners. Plus MuseumLab for youth 10+. Visit pittsburghkids.org for details.
Pittsburgh event (Paradise Island Bowl & Beach): Paradise Island Bowl & Beach on Neville Island is the perfect blend between an energetic entertainment venue featuring 24 state-of-the-art bowling lanes, axe throwing, a full game room, a full-service bar and restaurant and an outdoor bar for a relaxing experience. Guests can dive into exciting activities whether you're looking to bowl a few frames or explore the many entertainment options, or you can sit back and enjoy live music at the outdoor beach bar. Whether you're looking for a night out, a team building experience, or a trip with the whole family. Make Paradise your party destination.
Pittsburgh event (Nationality and Heritage Rooms): Thirty-one Nationality and Heritage Rooms depict Pittsburgh's ethnic heritages - European, Asian, Middle Eastern and African - through authentic examples of architecture and décor. Guided tours are offered at appointed times throughout the week, and gifts and publications are available for purchase at the Nationality Room’s Visitor Center. For more information on the Nationality and Heritage Rooms, booking a Tour, or Hours of Operation, please visit www.nationalityrooms.pitt.edu.
Pittsburgh event (Visit Lawrence County): It’s all about the trails; wine, craft beer, hiking, river, biking, Amish and burger. Find your inner “trail” in Lawrence County, PA among the many “off the wheel” experiences that await you. Follow these or go off on your own to create with friends and family. Plan your next adventure at VisitLawrenceCounty.com for events, must-see attractions, arts and culture and more.
Pittsburgh event (The Burgh Bus): Pittsburgh's most unique experience on wheels! We offer interactive comedy shows, themed tours, private party rentals and more. All tours are BYOB and hosted by local comedians and performers. We are also available for shuttle services, charters, weddings, corporate events. Book your tickets now.
jasujazmudzinski
Pittsburgh event (Pennsylvania Trolley Museum): Take a ride into the past at the Pennsylvania Trolley Museum! Imagine a museum where visitors are actually encouraged to touch the exhibits and ride in them too! We are a lot more than a trolley ride; our museum guides will put the trolley in its historical context, and explain what life was like 50-100 years ago. Admission includes 4-mile scenic trolley rides, interactive exhibits, theater, museum store and picnic area. Free parking. January - May: Open Thursday - Sunday, 10-4, Last full experience at 3pm. June - August: Open Tuesday - Sunday, 10-4, Last full experience at 3pm. September - December: Open Thursday - Sunday, 10-4, Last full experience at 3pm. Admission: $20 Adults, $19 Seniors (62+), $15 Children (3-18), 2 and under are Free Check website for admission prices and hours for special events. Directions: Take I-79 to Exit 41 Race Track Road and follow the Museum signs 3 miles. Street Address is 1 Electric Way, Washington, Pa 15301-6133 Information: 724-228-9256 or website
Pittsburgh event (Experience Armstrong, Inc.): Take a short drive up Route 28 to experience Armstrong County! Immerse yourself in our communities, traverse our trails, or paddle our waterways. Request your FREE Visitors Guide today!
Pittsburgh event (Bradford House Museum): A visit to the Bradford House Museum and the Whiskey Rebellion Education and Visitor Center is an immersion into the political excitement of the first citizen challenge to the newly forged United States Constitution. Meet the men and women who experienced the 1790s southwestern Pennsylvania frontier in all its brutality and glory as they struggled to build a civilized society. Experience architecture, artifacts, art, and illuminating text along the way. Take away a living history lesson in justice, equality, and equity.
Pittsburgh event (Rivers of Steel Tours): Inspired by the Pittsburgh region’s industrial and cultural heritage, Rivers of Steel offers an array of tours and experiences for travelers and groups, including those at the Carrie Blast Furnaces.
Pittsburgh event (Fort Pitt Museum): The Fort Pitt Museum explores Western Pennsylvania’s role during the French & Indian War, the American Revolution and the birth of Pittsburgh.
jasujazmudzinski
Pittsburgh event (Pittsburgh Paintball Park): Voted #1 paintball attraction, Pittsburgh Paintball is the largest and newest paintball park in the tri-state area. Influenced by video 
games like Call of Duty, Pittsburgh Paintball offers movie quality maps 
and realistic game modes, multi level buildings, towers, downed B-52 
military vehicles, even a massive Mayan Pyramid are scattered throughout
 the park! Book a private game perfect for family, friends, school 
groups, birthdays, bachelor parties, even corporate team building. 
Public play and rental packages available with no reservation. Ages 7 +,
 no experience required. Open year-round.
Pittsburgh event (Walk The Burgh Tours): Explore the heart of Downtown Pittsburgh and other historic neighborhoods by foot. Walk by and into must-see cultural and historical landmarks! Discover beautiful squares and fascinating pieces of public art!
Pittsburgh event (Phipps Conservatory and Botanical Gardens): Explore Pittsburgh's Botanical Gardens and Glasshouse. Explore the beauty and wonders of nature at Phipps Conservatory and Botanical 
Gardens, encompassing 15 acres including the historic 14-room glasshouse
 and 23 distinct gardens. Experience breathtaking seasonal flower shows,
 exclusive commissioned exhibits, immersive Tropical Forest, renowned 
orchid and bonsai collections, industry-leading sustainable architecture
 and green practices, delightful butterflies, fun family activities and 
much more. Discover why Phipps is a top destination for all ages, 
located just a few miles from downtown Pittsburgh in Schenley Park. 
Learn more at phipps.conservatory.org.
Pittsburgh event (Rezzanine Esports): Rezzanine Esports is a gaming venue/ modern arcade located on the second level of Phoenix Theatres in Bridgeville, PA. We offer a wide variety of console and PC games as well as classic games, pinball, board games, and more! There is also plenty of room to host a party, stream to your loyal followers, grab a bite to eat, or just sit down and unwind! From old school gamers to professional esports players, the Rezzanine has games for everyone!
Pittsburgh event (ASCEND Climbing): Founded in 2017 in Pittsburgh, ASCEND operates facilities that offer climbing, fitness, yoga, youth programs and community events, with locations in Pittsburgh's South Side, Point Breeze, and in Erie, PA. #ascendclimbing
jasujazmudzinski
Pittsburgh event (Meadowcroft Rockshelter and Historic Village): Discover 19,000 years of history, all in one day! Explore the prehistoric Meadowcroft Rockshelter, a National Historic Landmark, and experience daily life through the centuries in three recreated villages.
Pittsburgh event (Pittsburgh Riveters SC): The Pittsburgh Riveters SC is a women's soccer team built on the legacy of Rosie the Riveter, symbolizing strength, resilience, and progress. Rooted in Pittsburgh's deep sports tradition and blue-collar identity, the Riveters aim to create more than just a winning team -- they're building a movement. Focused on empowering women and inspiring the next generation, the club is committed to making a lasting impact both on the field and in the community. Through inclusive programming, fan engagement, and a dedication to excellence, the Riveters are uniting the city around a shared vision for the future of women's sports in Pittsburgh.
Pittsburgh event (Carnegie Museum of Art and Natural History): Explore two world-class museums with one ticket at Carnegie Museums of Art and Natural History! Located in the Oakland neighborhood, the museums provide an experience filled with culture, creativity, and exploration to all who visit. Carnegie Museum of Art, renowned for its collections of more than 100,00 objects, features a range of visual art, including painting, sculpture, decorative arts, design, and photography. Located within the same historic building, Carnegie Museum of Natural History is home to one of the country’s largest and most celebrated natural history collections featuring 22 million objects and specimens, ranging from real dinosaur fossils and dazzling gems and minerals to iconic wildlife dioramas.
Pittsburgh event (Historic Hanna's Town): Hanna's Town served as the site of the first English courts west of the Allegheny Mountains and first seat of government for Westmoreland County, established in 1773. Hanna's Town was an outpost for settlers, travelers, and those seeking law or court interventions. In May 1775, citizens of Westmoreland County drafted the Hanna’s Town Resolves condemning British actions at the Battles of Lexington and Concord and calling for a county militia. Throughout the Revolutionary War, Hanna’s Town served as a recruitment center for the county militia as well as the Continental Army. On July 13, 1782, Hanna’s Town was burned by British and Seneca forces in one of the last conflicts of the Revolutionary War. Today, Historic Hanna's Town offers guided tours of the reconstructed historic site, educational programs, and special events. Historic Hanna's Town is a Westmoreland County park managed by the Westmoreland Historical Society, which bases its operations at the Westmoreland History Education Center on site.
Pittsburgh event (Pittsburgh CLO): Features a six-show Broadway Summer Season at the Benedum Center, year-long entertainment at the CLO Cabaret and seasonal performances of A Musical Christmas Carol, at the historic Byham Theater.
jasujazmudzinski
Pittsburgh event (Experience Butler County): Kids just want to have fun, and Butler County, has something for everyone, year-round. Fun Fore All is one of the largest year-round family entertainment centers in the area with two miniature golf courses, a huge video arcade, and several indoor and outdoor attractions like go-karts, batting cages, and kiddie rides. Find out-of-this-world fun at Mars-Bethel Golf. The recreation center just celebrated its 60th year with a new type of game—Mini Corn-Hole! This hand-painted course is themed after the Red Planet and features more than a few space visitors. There’s also a mini golf course, a 9-hole Par-3 course, and Soccer Golf! Plaything Etc. is one of the unique spots we’re known for- the gleaming silver, curiously shaped building is home to a treasure trove of board games, puzzles, science kits, and more. Projects for artists of all ages can be found at our many art studios such as Steele’s Brushes & Ceramics and CURIO Art Gallery & studio. Learn something new together by taking a pottery wheel class! Butler County is the place to have meaningful experiences and create quality time with family and friends. Find more family fun by exploring: www.ExperienceButler.com
Pittsburgh event (Bike the Burgh Tours): Ready to explore Pittsburgh in a different way? Then join our city bike tours! Learn about the city's history, famous people, architecture and street art!
Pittsburgh event (Steelers Hall of Honor Museum): Located in Acrisure Stadium, the Steelers Hall of Honor Museum is dedicated to promoting, preserving and celebrating Steelers football. The museum is home to nearly 50 inductees and over 10,000 square feet of Steelers history, and provides opportunities for fans to learn more about the franchise, view rare artifacts preserved by the team and relive the biggest moments and people in Steelers history. A portion of the proceeds go to the Art Rooney Scholarship fund. Open Thursday through Monday from 11AM – 4PM. Open hours vary during home games, please check availability here . *The Hall of Honor Museum will be closed on University of Pittsburgh home game days. **Days/hours are subject to change. Stadium Tour information: https://acrisurestadium.com/stadium/tours/
Pittsburgh event (Montour Trail): Sixty miles of scenic pedestrian and bicycle rail-trail from Coraopolis 
on the Ohio River to Clairton on the Monongahela, with links to 
Pittsburgh International Airport and the Great Allegheny Passage.
Pittsburgh event (Yogi Bear's Jellystone Park at Kozy Rest): A four-time "Park of the Year," award-winning, family-centered campground just one hour north of Pittsburgh. The camp resort offers 
tent sites, full-hookups for RVs, luxury rental cabins and daily 
activities.
jasujazmudzinski
Pittsburgh event (Woodville Experience): Just outside of Pittsburgh sits Woodville - a National Historic Landmark and Southwestern Pennsylvania's oldest house museum. Visit our site to learn about the Whiskey Rebellion and life from 1780-1820. www.woodville-experience.org
Pittsburgh event (Deep Freeze Ice Arena): Practice facility for the Youngstown Phantoms (USHL), Olympic sized ice rink hosting a variety of ice skating, hockey, and other programs with multiple meeting rooms to support corporate and community functions.
Pittsburgh event (Mines and Meadows ATV/RV Resort): Visit Mines and Meadows ATV/RV Resort for a thrilling off-road experience, featuring diverse trails, underground mines, scenic landscapes, and camping. It's a must-do Pittsburgh adventure! Book your rental tour today!
Pittsburgh event (PPG Place - Attractions): Pittsburgh’s premier office complex sits atop a 5.5 acre site in the heart of downtown Pittsburgh, adjacent to Historic Market Square, and is home to several fine restaurants. The six-building glass complex surrounds a one-acre outdoor plaza featuring a unique water feature during the warm weather months and an ice rink during the winter months. The PPG Place Wintergarden is a bright plant-filled, all glass indoor garden environment which can be rented for private events.
Pittsburgh event (Pittsburgh Irish Festival): A 3-day Celtic Celebration featuring live music, dance, traditional Irish food and beverages, children's crafts and games, genealogy, 
cultural exhibits and more!
jasujazmudzinski
Pittsburgh event (VisitMercerCountyPA): Named one of America's Top Golf Destinations by Golf Digest Magazine. Outlets with 130 shops, America's largest shoe store, easily accessible location off I-79 and I-80.
Pittsburgh event (Senator John Heinz History Center): Ketch-up on Western Pennsylvania history at the Smithsonian’s home in Pittsburgh! Voted “Pittsburgh’s Best Museum” in 2022, the Senator John Heinz History 
Center is Pennsylvania’s largest history museum where you can see 
Smithsonian artifacts daily throughout six floors of engaging 
exhibitions, perfect for visitors of all ages. Explore the “Neighborhood of Make Believe” in the Mister Rogers’ Neighborhood 
exhibit, which includes the original living room set, puppets, and other
 iconic objects from the beloved children’s television show. Take a 
selfie next to an 11-foot Heinz ketchup bottle and immerse yourself in 
the delicious 150-year history of the H.J. Heinz Company. The museum’s flagship exhibit, Pittsburgh: A Tradition of Innovation, is 
where you can flex like Rosie the Riveter, learn about the region’s 
contributions to the Apollo 11 moon landing mission, and see how 
Pittsburgh transformed from a steel-making industrial powerhouse to a 
worldwide leader in technology, medicine, and education. Experience the journey of Black freedom seekers and discover Pittsburgh’s 
importance to the Underground Railroad inside the powerful From Slavery 
to Freedom exhibit. Big sports fan? The History Center is home to the two-floor Western Pennsylvania Sports Museum, which celebrates 
legendary athletes and unforgettable moments from the City of Champions. Learn more at www.heinzhistorycenter.org .
Pittsburgh event (Threadbare Cider and Mead): Threadbare is a Northside-based cidery producing craft ciders using locally grown fruit. The Cider House features a cider bottle shop, tasting room and kitchen.
Pittsburgh event (The Frick Pittsburgh): The Frick Pittsburgh is a fascinating complex of museums and historical 
buildings located on nearly six acres of lawns and gardens in 
Pittsburgh's residential East End. The Frick is devoted to the 
interpretation of the life and times of industrialist and art collector 
Henry Clay Frick. Exhibitions of fine and decorative art are also 
presented at the Frick. Visitors will enjoy The Frick Art Museum; Car and Carriage Museum; Clayton, the 
restored 19th-century Victorian home of the Henry Clay Frick family; The
 Café at the Frick; the Greenhouse; as well as the lush grounds and 
gardens.
Pittsburgh event (Beaver County Tourism): Whether your tribe prefers traversing the great outdoors, learning about history, or experiencing adrenaline-pumping activities that will have your heart racing, make your next family adventure one for the books in Beaver County. Spanning 877 acres, nearby Mines and Meadows ATV/RV Resort has ATV, dirt bike, and side by side riding trails and has the only underground riding in the northeast. Catering to sports cars, formula cars, motorcycles, and more, Pittsburgh International Race Complex has three different configurations. Pitt Race also boasts a 0.82-mile kart track providing a rush of excitement as one of the fastest kart tracks in Pennsylvania. Keep the fun going and head over to Pinball PA which offers one of the largest collections of video games and pinball machines in the country. Named one of the “8 Best Arcades and Game Museums” in the U.S. by Travel Age West, they house over 420 video games and pinball machines all turned to Free Play. Once you pay admission, you are free to play every machine in the museum! The opportunities to make memories with your family are endless.
jasujazmudzinski
Pittsburgh event (Washington County Tourism Promotion Agency): There is a place far from the city, yet just down the road. A place where likes and shares mean more. You can feel it in every swing, each performance and every bite. Where the sun rises and sets as if on purpose. Where the miles of trails we ride together, become the memories we share forever. We dream, because our forefathers fought for it. We give, because they worked for it. The American Spirit Lives in Washington County, come and share it. While you are here, discover the many faces of Washington County! Visit The Meadows Racetrack & Casino, Tanger Outlets, The Pavilion at Star Lake, the Pennsylvania Trolley Museum, Meadowcroft Rockshelter & Historic Village, The LeMoyne House, Bradford House Museum, The SpringHouse, Sarris Candies, and much more! Considerthis an open invitation to break away from the everyday, take a deep breath and dream here. Unplug, unwind and just be here. Plan your trip today at VisitWashingtonCountyPA.com.
Pittsburgh event (Bear Run Campground & Cabins): Bordering Moraine State Park at Lake Arthur lies the area's foremost family camping facility. Full-hookup RV sites, tenting, cabins, canoes and more. 1/2 hour to Pittsburgh via I-79, I-279. Interstate 79, Exit 96.
Pittsburgh event (Printscape Arena): Printscape Arena is home to two NHL sized ice sheets, one seasonal and one year-round. We host events of every kind, from trade shows, expos, sports tournaments, and concerts!
Pittsburgh event (Pittsburgh Zoo & Aquarium): Enjoy a family experience that fosters understanding, respect, and appreciation of wildlife with a visit to the Pittsburgh Zoo. Visit 8,000 animals from around the world and under the sea! The Pittsburgh Zoo & Aquarium inspires guests with the incredible variety of creatures with whom we share our planet. There is so much to explore at the Zoo, we provide 77 acres of fun! The Pittsburgh Zoo & Aquarium is open every day of the year except Thanksgiving, Christmas, and New Year’s Day. Prices vary. https://www.pittsburghzoo.org/plan-your-visit/
Pittsburgh event (Sandbox VR): Sandbox VR is the world's premier destination for futuristic virtual reality entertainment. Full-body motion capture and high-quality haptics combine for realistic and fully immersive experiences for groups up to 6 players.
jasujazmudzinski
Pittsburgh event (Kennywood): Minutes from Downtown, Kennywood Park is one of Pittsburgh's best-loved historic landmarks. But don't let the history fool you! Three beloved, landmark wooden roller coasters are paired with Pennsylvania's fastest (Phantom's Revenge) and tallest (Steel Curtain) coasters, with dozens of other great attractions for all ages. Young children flock to Kiddieland and Thomas Town, featuring the world-famous children's characters, while all ages cherish a ride on the park's historic carousel and other classic attractions. Plus unique food, entertaining games, and engaging special events throughout the year! Hours: open select dates from Mid-April - September, plus seasonal Halloween & Holiday events. Visit Kennywood.com for schedule, discount offers, and group outing information.
Pittsburgh event (Puttshack): Puttshack is tech-infused mini golf, which means we’ve thrown out the paper and pencils and replaced them with a super fun new scoring game! Our balls track your gameplay, and you can earn (or lose) points based on how you play. This isn’t just a new way to play mini golf, It’s the only way! After you hit the links, we invite you to join us for a culinary journey of global flavors from our eclectic shareable and street-food infused menu offerings; complimented by a drink menu that can only be described as our love letter to the history of cocktails.
Pittsburgh event (Rose Point Park - Cabins & Camping): Family camping in charming full-service log cabins, yurts and camp sites. Located just north of Pittsburgh near McConnells Mill State Park. Heated pool, fishing, hiking trails. Fun for everyone!
Pittsburgh event ('Burgh Bits and Bites Food Tour): Connecting people to communities through food. ‘Burgh Bits and Bites Food Tour is a food tasting adventure and historic walking tour of Pittsburgh neighborhoods. Enjoy a historic narrative of the area along with a sampling of cuisine from some of Pittsburgh's best small local businesses and eateries. Tours available in the Strip District-Pittsburgh's historic market district, Lawrenceville, Northside, Brookline, South Side and Oakland. Harmony and Saxonburg tours available in Butler County. Whether you are visiting from out of town or a native of the Pittsburgh area, our goal is to make your tour an enriching, educational, and most of all - a delightful, tasty adventure!
Pittsburgh event (GO Laurel Highlands): Nestled in southwestern Pennsylvania, the Laurel Highlands is a family-friendly destination with rolling mountains, outdoor adventures, and small-town charm. Families can hike scenic trails, bike along the Great Allegheny Passage, camp under the stars, and paddle or raft the Youghiogheny River. Add in Idlewild & SoakZone, the legacy of Mister Rogers, and cozy mountain resorts, and it’s the perfect place to make memories together—just an hour from Pittsburgh.
jasujazmudzinski
Pittsburgh event (Flour Power Cooking Studios: Pittsburgh): Flour Power is a place for joyful culinary experiences for all ages where cooking is a love language. Our cooking studios are where you’ll discover that YOU’RE the main ingredient.
Pittsburgh event (National Aviary): SEASONAL HOURS: The National Aviary is open to guests daily from 10 am to 5 pm and CLOSED Tuesdays. The nation's bird zoo is home to more than 500 birds and other animals from around the world, many of them threatened or endangered in the wild. Large walk-through habitats allow for close interactions between visitors and birds. Visitors can watch flamingos frolic, witness penguins waddle and swim, and "hang out" with a sloth.
Pittsburgh event (Great Allegheny Passage): A scenic, non-motorized, nearly-flat footpath and bicycle trail connecting Pittsburgh and Cumberland, Maryland, via spectacular bridges and tunnels and through lovely trail-side towns. Connects to the C&O Canal Towpath for a journey to Washington, D.C.
Pittsburgh event (Indiana County Tourist Bureau): It’s a Wonderful Life year-round in Indiana County, PA. Experience outdoor adventures such as hiking or biking 69 miles of rails-to-trails, off-roading on bike and ATV trails or exploring the unique Ecotour Geo Trail. Marvel at the 45-foot Buttermilk Falls, or simply enjoy one of our many parks, natural areas or Yellow Creek State Park. Experience a variety of exciting events, including Scary Harry’s Haunted Trails (weekends beginning September 26), Hitchcock Film Festival at The Jimmy Stewart Museum (daily through October 31), Smicksburg Fall Festival (10/4-5), Pumpkin Festival at Reeger’s Farm (weekends beginning 10/4), Indiana County Conservation District Apple Fest (10/4), The Clarks (10/4), Ox Hill OX-Toberfest (10/11), West Penn Trail Triathlon (10/11), Harvest Fest 2025 (10/11), Evening in the Stacks (10/17), Potters Tour (10/18-19), United Way Turkeython (10/24), Sustainability Summit (10/24), Lee Greenwood (10/24), Historic Lantern Tour (10/25), Raymond the Amish Comic (10/25), Smicksburg Old Fashioned Country Christmas Open House (11/1-2 and 8 & 9), InFirst Bank Veteran's Marathon, Half Marathon & Marathon Relay (11/2) and Indiana County Veterans Expo & Stand Down (11/7-8) Visit our website www.VisitIndianaCountyPA.org for fun ideas for your road trip to Indiana County. Come for fun, take home a memory!
Pittsburgh event (Cruisin' Tikis Pittsburgh): "Aloha! Cruisin’ Tikis Pittsburgh offers unique and relaxing two hour sightseeing cruises on the Three Rivers aboard one of our "original" floating Tiki Boats. Our Tiki Fun Cruises depart from Pittsburgh's North Shore or Station Square and include spectacular photo opportunities of iconic Pittsburgh landmarks and local points of interest from the water. Each Cruisin’ Tiki boat carries up to six people, along with an experienced Coast Guard certified Captain, and is equipped with a four speaker bluetooth enabled stereo system for your listening pleasure. Guests are encouraged to bring a cooler with their favorite beverages and snacks."
jasujazmudzinski
Pittsburgh event (Mix Candle Co.): Choose from over 110+ fragrances to create your custom candle or home fragrance product. Explore. Mix. Pour.
Pittsburgh event (Greene County Tourist Promotion Agency): Drive an hour south of Pittsburgh to the corner of southwestern Pennsylvania for scenic views, covered bridges, unique festivals, and small-town charm. We invite you to visit Greene County!
Pittsburgh event (Mattress Factory Museum of Contemporary Art): Mattress Factory has pioneered the development of alternative art forms through site-specific installations, video and performance art. It is nationally and internationally recognized as a leader in site-specific, contemporary art and is notorious for pushing the boundaries of both artist and viewer. The unparalleled support that artists receive from the Mattress Factory, while working in residence, often results in the production of extraordinary artwork that propels the artist’s career and significantly impacts the field of contemporary art.
Pittsburgh event (Pittsburgh Vintage Grand Prix): A 10-day Motorsport Festival of races, car shows and parties culminating with Race Weekend: July 19-20, 2025.
Pittsburgh event (Amped Airsoft Arena): Discover Amped Airsoft Arena, Pittsburgh's premier indoor facility. Multi-level, close quarter battles and realistic obstacles, players of all ages will experience exciting gameplay in a safe environment with onsite rentals, pro-shop and party packages!
jasujazmudzinski
Pittsburgh event (Compass Inn Museum/Ligonier Valley Historical Society): An authentically restored stagecoach stop where history comes alive as a period-dressed guide leads you through the historic inn and reconstructed cookhouse, blacksmith shop, and barn that houses the 1830s-style eastern stagecoach.
Pittsburgh event (Molly's Trolleys Pittsburgh): At Molly's Trolleys, we offer exciting, fully narrated sightseeing tours of Pittsburgh - perfect for the whole family! We invite you to join us on a tour through some of the most popular Pittsburgh neighborhoods, including: Oakland, Downtown, Strip District, North Shore and Mt. Washington. Our knowledgeable tour guides make for an unforgettable experience as they blend history with current events, and keep each tour interesting and fun! Our Pittsburgh trolley tours take place daily. Every tour makes a stop for a photo opportunity of the Pittsburgh skyline, and every tour includes a ride on the historic Duquesne Incline!
Pittsburgh event (Dave & Buster's): A wide variety of games, endless buffet and bar options and first-rate meeting areas, Dave and Buster's of Pittsburgh is the premier location for fun and entertaining corporate events.
Pittsburgh event (The Andy Warhol Museum): The Andy Warhol Museum ...Provocative, challenging, energizing and exploring all that art can and should 
be. The Warhol is one of the most comprehensive single-artist museums in
 the world and the largest in North America. At The Warhol you have the 
chance to truly experience art. Whether you come to see our permanent 
collection, a performance, a visiting artist’s work, or a party, you’ll 
find something to talk about, chuckle over, delight in, or ponder for 
days. Books, posters, videos, postcards, gifts, and other materials are available at The Warhol Store.
Pittsburgh event (SurfSUP Adventures): SurfSUP Adventures is your premier guide and outfitter for standup paddleboarding in Pittsburgh. Trip selections include: eco-tours, SUP yoga, nighttime glow paddles, whitewater adventures, river surfing, rentals and sales. SurfSUP also offers instructor certifications, lessons, and training. For your large groups and private events, SurfSUP provides team building, retreats, and youth programs that are suitable for all ages and skill levels. You will receive free photography and top-of-the-line equipment on every SurfSUP Adventure. Choose from locations including: Moraine State Park, the Islands of Oakmont, Pittsburgh’s Three Rivers, and more. To schedule your adventure, visit: www.surfsupadventures.com or call: 724-989-7259 now!
jasujazmudzinski
Pittsburgh event (Pittsburgh Riverhounds SC): Positioned along the Monongahela River and overshadowed by Pittsburgh's iconic skyline, Highmark Stadium plays home to the Pittsburgh Riverhounds SC. Paired with the scenic venue, Pittsburgh's professional soccer team has one of the most unique sporting experiences offered in the city. While watching the highest level of soccer in western Pennsylvania, fans take in all match festivities within the extraordinary atmosphere of Station Square. With riverside seating, balconies overlooking the field in the midst of city skyscrapers and a family-friendly environment, Riverhounds SC and Highmark Stadium provide memorable entertainment for those of all ages.
Pittsburgh event (Moonshot Museum): Moonshot Museum is Pennsylvania's first space museum and the first museum in the world to focus on career and community readiness for the 21st century space industry. Via a unique partnership with Pittsburgh space robotics company Astrobotic, Moonshot Museum pulls back the curtain on the contemporary space industry, offering the unparalleled opportunity to see real spacecraft be built through a wall of floor-to-ceiling windows - an experience unlike any other in the world. Visitors will embark on simulated lunar missions inspired by real space industry challenges, meet space professionals and find their place in the future of human space exploration from Mission Control in Pittsburgh's North Side.
Pittsburgh event (Trust Family Series): The Trust Family series, a program of the Pittsburgh Cultural Trust, presents award-winning, professional theater for audiences of all ages.
Pittsburgh event (Iron City Boulders): Iron City Boulders boasts 11,000+ square feet of climbing walls, various yoga classes, and a fully equipped fitness center - making it Pittsburgh's premier climbing and fitness facility. Visit ICB today!
Pittsburgh event (FA Climbing & Fitness): Grab a friend or the whole family and come try rock climbing! We love introducing new people to climbing and helping them reach the top. We'll start your visit with an orientation to get you ready to climb guided by one of our friendly staff members. Then, you'll enjoy fun, challenging climbing for all ages and ability levels, from new climbers to seasoned experts. You can also flow in one of our yoga classes, get a great workout in our fully stocked fitness area, and connect in one of our hangout spaces with free WiFi. Day passes and memberships available, as well as Guide Climbing, Kids Classes, Birthday Parties and more. Let's climb!
jasujazmudzinski
Pittsburgh event (Palmer Imaging Arena): Sports facility east of Pittsburgh with three NHL-sized ice rinks. One rink converts to dry floor event space in the spring/summer to host a variety of tradeshows, expos and events.
Pittsburgh event (Pittsburgh Ice Arena): Multi-surface ice rink northeast of Pittsburgh with multiple meeting rooms, concessions, and medical care to compliment the variety of on ice programming.
Pittsburgh event (Allegheny County Parks Department): Allegheny County’s nine parks span more than 12,000 acres and offer an 
array of seasonal and year-round sporting, leisure and entertainment 
opportunities, including golfing, swimming, skiing, ice skating and 
more.
Pittsburgh event (West Overton Village and Museum): Discover the history of agriculture, industry, Pennsylvania whiskey, and the birthplace of Henry Clay Frick. Tour the 1838 Homestead, explore museum exhibitions, and taste rye whiskey at our educational distillery.
Pittsburgh event (Kamin Science Center): Located just minutes from downtown Pittsburgh on the North Shore, Kamin Science Center offers five floors of interactive exhibits guaranteed to wow visitors of all ages. Soar to distant galaxies in Buhl Planetarium and explore outer space in the new exhibition Mars: The Next Giant Leap®. Take a tour of western Pennsylvania's history in the world-renowned Miniature Railroad & Village ® . Come aboard USS Requin (SS 481), a real submarine moored in the Ohio River. Learn about Pennsylvania's waterways in H2Oh!, and get a closer look at some of the state's native species. See real preserved human organs and learn about the amazing biology of the human body. All included with General Admission! Add on a movie in the Rangos Giant Cinema and transport to another world with amazing 4K clarity on a Giant Screen and 44 surround-sound speakers. The sights and sounds of will leave you feeling like you are there. Plan your visit to Pittsburgh's family destination for interactive experiences in science and technology today to ignite your curiosity! Easy parking!
jasujazmudzinski
Pittsburgh event (Museum of Illusions Pittsburgh): Get ready to change your perspective at Museum of Illusions Pittsburgh where education meets entertainment in a dazzling fusion of mind-bending wonders! This all-ages, immersive experience boasts over 80 exhibits, installations, and immersive rooms designed to challenge the senses and spark curiosity. Enjoy gravity-defying rooms, holographic displays, and photo-worthy fun around every corner! Perfect for families, date nights, or a North Shore excursion with friends, #MOIPittsburgh is a must do!
Pittsburgh event (Five Iron Golf): Located just steps Market Square, Five Iron Golf is turning traditional golf on its head, celebrating the unconventional, and energizing communities through accessible and enjoyable golf experiences. We are a full service offering with in-house catering, an elevated beverage program, and technology that drives meaningful experiences for corporate and social gatherings alike. Five Iron Pittsburgh is home to eleven custom built golf simulators featuring multiple high-speed camera to capture every angle of a golf swing, a putting green, and a variety of alternative entertainment options, including ping-pong, pool, and shuffleboard, making this Pittsburgh's best spot for corporate events, social gatherings, or simply working on your game.
Pittsburgh event (Dollar Bank Three Rivers Arts Festival): Dollar Bank Three Rivers Arts Festival is a production of the Pittsburgh Cultural Trust featuring world-class, multi-disciplinary performing and visual arts in Pittsburgh's Cultural District.
Pittsburgh event (Sandcastle Waterpark): Experience vacation without leaving Pittsburgh! Featuring 16 water slides, two pools, two children's areas, and a lazy river, there's 
summer fun for everyone at Sandcastle!
Pittsburgh event (Idlewild & SoakZone): What family fun is all about. Seven themed areas; fun for the entire family. Voted #1 Best Kids' Park in the World! Voted Best Park for 
Families!
jasujazmudzinski
Pittsburgh event (Mix Candle Co. SouthSide Works): Smell your way through 100s of candles and make your very own. Choose your jar, design the label, then mix your own custom fragrance!
Pittsburgh event (cfsbank Event Center): Mon Valley's most visited event venue with over 85,000 annually. Venue includes NHL-sized ice rink, dry floor event space, meeting and banquet rooms, and full-service restaurant.
Pittsburgh event (Dick's House of Sport): At Dick's House of Sport Pittsburgh, located in Ross Park Mall we're redefining what it means to shop for sports gear. Our 132,000-square-foot space offers much more than just a retail experience - it's a place where you can test, try, and play. Challenge yourself on our 32-foot rock climbing wall, practice your skills in our multisport cages, or take your game to the next level with state-of-the-art golf simulators. We invite you to explore our vast selection of athletic footwear, gear, and apparel, all while enjoying interactive events, fitness classes, and product demos designed for the while community!
Pittsburgh event (Dave & Buster's Pittsburgh - North Hills): Discover the ultimate destination for your next event! Whether it is a meeting, birthday, field trip, or holiday party, level up the FUN with delicious food, creative cocktails, and epic games! Make your next outing memorable by hosting your parties at Dave & Buster's. Our dedicated event planner will ensure your gathering is a resounding success, with tailored packages to suit your group event needs.
Pittsburgh event (Duquesne Incline): Enjoy a spectacular panorama of Pittsburgh and its three rivers. Ride to the incline's Observation Deck in the 148-year-old Incline car to see what USA Today Weekend Magazine calls one of the "10 most beautiful views in America". Historical exhibits in the waiting room entertain between rides. Hours: Daily 6:30 A.M. (morning) to 12:30 A.M. (after midnight)
jasujazmudzinski
Pittsburgh event (Highmark First Night Pittsburgh): Held in Pittsburgh's Cultural District, Highmark First Night Pittsburgh region's biggest New Year's Eve celebration. This family-friendly event is a production of the Pittsburgh Cultural Trust.
Pittsburgh event (Rivers of Steel): Looking to travel to southwestern Pennsylvania? Interested in experiencing all that our region has to offer? Explore the Rivers of Steel National Heritage Area – an eight-county region of communities linked by a shared cultural and industrial heritage. Rivers of Steel Heritage Tours works with tour operators, conference planners, and pre-formed travel groups to organize single or multi-day itineraries who are looking to visit points of interest throughout southwestern Pennsylvania. Partnering with other attractions, hotels, eateries, and more, Rivers of Steel is a one-stop shop to package and book your inbound tours. We also offer local step-on guides and of course are happy to arrange for you to visit our own attractions, including tours on the Explorer riverboat and through the iconic Carrie Blast Furnaces!
Pittsburgh event (Gateway Clipper Fleet): For the very young to the well-seasoned, we have year-round cruises to put a smile on all your family members’ faces. Join us for the Princess, Pup Patrol, Super-Heros or special Holiday Cruises to put the wonder on those little faces, and maybe even a little face paint too! Sailing all year long, we have something for all ages with sightseeing or themed cruises and of course there is always the possibility of a Private Charter for the Family Reunions, Weddings and more! Come on down to the river on a dining or sightseeing cruise and make a memory out on the water! We are located on the southern shores of the Monongahela River in Historic Station Square. Visit our website for all our latest cruise information and great online only special offers! Dining Cruises: Captain's Dinner Dance Cruise Lock & Dam Dinner Cruise Sunset Dinner Cruises Wine Tasting Cruise Showboat Luncheon Cruise Autumn Serenade Cruise (October Only) Holiday Dining Cruises: Valentine Dinner Cruises Easter Dinner Cruises Mother's Day Dinner Cruises Father's Day Dinner Cruises Fourth of July Dinner Cruises Thanksgiving Dinner Cruises Holiday Sparkle Dinner Cruises Holiday Captain's Dinner Cruises Sightseeing Cruises: Three Rivers Sightseeing Cruise Haunted Three Rivers Cruise (October Only) Kids Themed Cruises: Princess Cruise Superhero Cruise Trolls & Pup Patrol Cruise Princess & Superhero Cruise Holiday Themed Cruises – Easter Bunny Fun, Halloween Fun, Santa Fun Dance & Entertainment Cruises: Moonlight Dance Cruises Specialty Entertainment Music Cruises Polka Dance Cruise Shuttle Service - Sails from Station Square Dock Only to: Pittsburgh Pirates Games at PNC Park Pittsburgh Steelers Games at Acrisure Stadium Pittsburgh Panthers Games at Acrisure Stadium Major Concert Events at PNC Park and Acrisure Stadium Private Events and Weddings: Have your Special Event as you sail the picturesque Three Rivers!
