What to Eat at Kennywood
Fuel Up with Iconic Pittsburgh Eats and Sweet Treats as you Ride the Day Away
As Kennywood celebrates 126 years of operation in 2024, it's easy to pinpoint the success of the park with it's mixture of thrilling rides, classic amusements and ever-evolving list of special events and festivals that keeps Pittsburghers coming back. But, I'm here to argue that what actually lingers most in your memory isn't the jump of the Jackrabbit but the salty goodness of those Potato Patch fries.
That's why l've developed this culinary guide to Kennywood, complete with maps, of where to find some of the best bites in the park so you don't miss a morsel.
jasujazmudzinski
Mr. Smalls
Repurposed church as a music venue
Once a place you could only hear organ music on Sundays, Mr. Smalls took over the former St. Ann's Catholic Church (built in 1924) and has been bringing live music of all genres to the Millvale neighborhood since 2002. This unique concert space has audiophile-approved acoustics thanks to 40-foot ceilings and stained glass windows covered with sound paneling. You can stand on the main floor or watch from seats surrounding the second floor, but there's not a bad view from anywhere in this venue.
With a capacity under 1,000, this venue is perfect for both emerging artists as well as national touring musicians to play, and the intimate setting makes for a deeply personal experience with the music and your fellow concertgoers I don't find anywhere else (RIP Altar Bar). In their 20+ years of operation, Smalls has hosted Fall Out Boy, Snoop Dogg, Kesha, Interpol and All That Remains, among many others, that have gone on to music superstar acclaim.
jasujazmudzinski
There’s no shortage of exquisite theaters and performance venues. The Benedum Center, Heinz Hall and Kelly Strayhorn Theater are all architectural and historical gems. And the Grammy®-award winning Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra, Pittsburgh Ballet Theater and Pittsburgh Opera each offer beautifully captivating experiences with each performance.
With over 2300 theater, music and dance performances each year, Pittsburgh has the performing arts covered
jasujazmudzinski
At 42 stories and 535 feet, the Cathedral of Learning is the tallest educational building in the western hemisphere (and fourth tallest in the world). The building contains over 2,000 rooms, including 30 Nationality Rooms.
The Cathedral of Learning is a central place on campus for everyone in the Pitt community to study, meet, work, eat, and more. The building is home to many academic departments and the Chancellor's office. The first class was held in the Cathedral of Learning in 1931.
The centerpiece of Pitt’s Oakland campus (and the most notable building) is the architecturally stunning Cathedral of Learning
jasujazmudzinski
Heinz ketchup
The most famous condiment associated with Pittsburgh is Heinz Ketchup. This iconic, world-renowned condiment was created in Pittsburgh in 1857. Heinz ramped up production of the tomato ketchup during the 20th century. As of today, the ketchup is no longer produced in the city, but it is still a popular condiment at local restaurants and residents' homes.
jasujazmudzinski