Title: Summary

Kamin Science Center, [ needs update ] formerly Carnegie Science Center, is one of the four Carnegie Museums of Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. It is located in the Chateau neighborhood, across the street from Acrisure Stadium.
Title: Overview
Kamin Science Center is the most visited museum in Pittsburgh, and is located along the Ohio River on the North Shore. It has five floors of interactive exhibits totaling over 400 exhibits, and attracts nearly 500,000 visitors each year. Among its attractions are the Buhl Planetarium (which features the latest in digital projection technology), the Rangos Giant Theater (promoted as "the biggest screen in Pittsburgh"), a physical home for some of Carnegie Mellon University ’s Robot Hall of Fame (in the lobby of the Rangos Giant Cinema), the Miniature Railroad & Village, and the USS Requin (a World War II submarine ).
Title: Updates
In September 2025, the Science Center proudly unveiled its new name following a transformative $65 million gift from Daniel G. and Carole L. Kamin.
This historic donation marks the beginning of an exciting new chapter, with several major projects set to launch over the next two years. These initiatives will enhance more than 75% of the Science Center’s exhibit spaces, creating dynamic, inclusive, and future-focused experiences for all visitors:
['Peirce Atrium: A stunning, interactive installation will fill the museum’s four-story atrium with light, movement, and imagination—bringing science to life in a bold new way.', 'Building Futures Exhibition: This groundbreaking exhibit will highlight the science behind skilled trades and showcase the innovation driving some of today’s most in-demand careers.', 'Responsive Science Display: A powerful new experience will explore the local impacts of climate change in Southwestern Pennsylvania through immersive storytelling and cutting-edge design.', 'North Lot Beautification Project: A community-centered transformation of the museum’s north parking lot will introduce expanded green space and engaging science displays.', '1st Floor Gallery Refresh: A completely reimagined space will energize visitors with hands-on, interactive exhibits designed to spark curiosity and discovery.', 'Early Learners Space: A brand-new 4th Floor exhibition will invite young explorers into a world of age-appropriate science play, fostering early curiosity and learning.']
jasujazmudzinski

Title: History
Its predecessor was the Buhl Planetarium and Institute of Popular Science, which opened on October 24, 1939. The Buhl Planetarium was the fifth major planetarium in the United States, and was popular for several decades. However, by the 1980s it had begun to show signs of age. An expansion was ruled out, so the institute was relocated to the Chateau neighborhood. However, it became apparent to the Buhl Institute that the relocation efforts would require more staffing than they were able to provide. At this point, the Carnegie Institute (under the leadership of Robert Wilburn ) stepped in, showing interest in merging with the Buhl Institute. Both parties agreed to the merger in 1987. On October 5, 1989, construction began on the $40 million building, designed by local architect Tasso Katselas, which was renamed Carnegie Science Center as a result of the merger. The Henry Buhl Jr. Planetarium and Observatory was reinvented in this new facility. The Science Center opened in October 1991. On January 23, 2024, Carnegie Science Center announced that they received a $65 million donation from Daniel G. and Carole L. Kamin. In honor of the donation, they announced plans to rename the facility to the Daniel G. and Carole L. Kamin Science Center.
jasujazmudzinski

Title: E-motion cone
The E-motion cone is a white-colored, inverted cone which sits atop the Science Center building. It is referred to as the Weather Cone and was designed by New York architect Shashi Caan and lighting designer Matthew Tanteri. It was installed in 2000 with a computerized lighting system. In 2008 a storm damaged the cone, thus it underwent upgrades to its lighting system with an addition of energy-efficient bulbs. At night, it is lit with different colors, signalling the weather forecast from WTAE-TV for the coming day.
[['Red', 'Warmer'], ['Green', 'No change'], ['Blue', 'Cooler']]
[['<flashing>', 'Precipitation'], ['Yellow', 'Severe weather']]
jasujazmudzinski

