Skip to main content
Announcing the H. John Heinz III Dean of the Heinz College of Information Systems and Public Policy
June 5, 2025
Dear Members of the Carnegie Mellon Community:
I am delighted to announce the appointment of Dr. Kirsten Martin as the next H. John Heinz III Dean of the Heinz College of Information Systems and Public Policy. Dr. Martin will assume her role on July 1, 2025. This appointment follows a comprehensive global search, and I am confident her leadership will build upon the outstanding legacy of Dean Ramayya Krishnan, who led the college for more than 16 years and will return to his faculty role.
Dr. Martin joins us from the University of Notre Dame, where she is the distinguished William P. and Hazel B. White Professor of Technology Ethics and a professor of information technology, analytics and operations in the Mendoza College of Business. She also directed the Notre Dame Technology Ethics Center from 2021 to 2023, leading academic initiatives across the university. Prior to Notre Dame, Dr. Martin was the Lindner-Gambal Professor in Business Ethics and chair of the Strategic Management and Public Policy department at George Washington University.
A leading expert and sought-after speaker in the ethics of technology and privacy, Dr. Martin’s research explores the related responsibilities of business in these critical areas. She served as the technology and business ethics editor for the Journal of Business Ethics and as board member and president of the Society of Business Ethics. She is currently on the program committee of the Privacy Law Scholars Conference. She holds a bachelor's degree in industrial and operations engineering from the University of Michigan, as well as doctoral and MBA degrees from the University of Virginia's Darden Graduate School of Business.
Dr. Martin is a respected leader and accomplished researcher who brings significant expertise, experience and a strong sense of momentum to her new role. As Heinz College continues its trajectory as an innovative education, research and partnership ecosystem, I know Dr. Martin will be instrumental in shaping its future success.
I extend my sincere gratitude to the search committee, led by Richard Scheines, the Bess Family Dean of the Dietrich College of Humanities and Social Sciences, and Amelia Haviland, the Eugene Barone Professor of Health Systems Management at Heinz College. Their collaborative efforts in engaging with stakeholders, carefully considering a strong pool of applicants, and ultimately selecting Dr. Martin for this pivotal role are deeply appreciated. I commend their significant time and insightful contributions.
Please join me in welcoming Dean Kirsten Martin to Carnegie Mellon University and Heinz College.
Sincerely,
James H. Garrett Jr.
Provost and Chief Academic Officer

jasujazumdinski