Announcing CMU's Next Vice President for University Advancement
November 19, 2024
Dear Members of the CMU Community:
I am pleased to announce that, following a rigorous national search, I have appointed David Bennett as Carnegie Mellon University's next vice president for university advancement, effective February 17, 2025.
David joins us from Howard University, where he currently serves as the senior vice president for development and alumni relations. During his tenure, he has successfully led transformative fundraising efforts that have completely reimagined Howard’s advancement capacity. Prior to his position at Howard, David served as the chief development officer and led all global philanthropic programs for one of the world’s largest nonprofit organizations, the National Geographic Society. He also previously held top advancement jobs at United Cerebral Palsy of America and in the private sector via his work at the boutique consulting firm Odell, Simms & Associates, Inc. David has a proven track record of building close, collaborative and transparent relationships across teams, creating strategies that increase engagement, and driving campaigns that exceed their target goal.
The search for this pivotal role was conducted in partnership with Aspen Leadership Group, with the support and guidance of an exceptional advisory committee of university leaders. The process was further enriched by the insights of a trustee advisory group that also provided input. I am grateful to all who supported this search process and took time to evaluate our finalist candidates.
David's appointment comes at an opportune time, as we build on the momentum of Make Possible: The Campaign for Carnegie Mellon University, which has already raised close to $2.4 billion in support of university priorities, including support for student scholarships and fellowships, endowed faculty positions, pioneering research, and capital projects that support our core mission. This extraordinary achievement was made possible through intentional coordination between the central University Advancement division, led by former Vice President Scott Mory, and the schools and colleges, with the support of our deans and academic leaders. David will now continue this legacy of excellence, and partnership across the university will continue to be of critical importance as we chart an ambitious course for CMU’s future.
During this interim period, the University Advancement team has continued to excel in every facet of its work. I would like to take a moment to recognize and thank Pam Eager (ENG 1987, TPR 1995), who has been serving as interim vice president and whose steadfast leadership of our incredibly talented staff has ensured our advancement efforts remain seamless and impactful. I extend my heartfelt gratitude to Pam and the entire team for their hard work and unwavering commitment to CMU.
Please join me in welcoming David Bennett to the Carnegie Mellon community. We look forward to the expertise, passion and collaborative spirit he will bring as we continue to elevate the university’s impact and mission.
Sincerely,
Farnam Jahanian
President
Henry L. Hillman President’s Chair
jasujazumdinski