Skip to main content
Support Carnegie Mellon’s 32nd Annual Food Drive
October 1, 2025
Dear Members of the CMU Community:
For more than three decades, our CMU community has been showing care and concern for our neighbors in need of food in the greater Pittsburgh area. Today we are excited to kick off the 32nd Annual Food Drive, organized and sponsored by Staff Council.
Coming together to support Greater Pittsburgh Community Food Bank is not only a chance to provide meals and resources, but also to strengthen a bond between our campus and the community that sustains us. Each year, it is a delight to see our students, faculty and staff unite to make a meaningful difference in addressing food insecurity in our region. According to the Food Bank, CMU organizes the highest-grossing food drive of any organization in the city of Pittsburgh!
Our goals this year are to raise $100,000 and gather nonperishable food items (especially peanut butter) for the Food Bank. We also aim to collect 250 can openers for the CMU Food Pantry. The 2025 drive runs through Saturday, Nov. 8.
Donate to the Food Drive
Bring a donation to the following events for the chance to win prizes:

Tartan Tuesdays (students only)

Tuesdays, Oct. 7 and 21, noon-5 p.m., Alumni House
- Food Drive Fall Fest
Wednesday, Oct. 29, noon-2 p.m., Merson Courtyard
- Benefits &amp; Fitness Fair
Wednesday, Nov. 5, 10 a.m.-2 p.m., Cohon University Center Second Floor
Or drop off your nonperishable food and can opener donations here:

Drive &amp; Drop

Tuesday, Oct. 21, 11 a.m.-1 p.m., East Campus Garage
Nonperishables can also be dropped off at the Parking Office during business hours any day.
Visit the Staff Council Food Drive web page for more details, and contact Carole Panno with questions.
Thank you in advance for your continued generosity!
Sincerely,
Jim Garrett
Provost and Chief Academic Officer
Honorary Chair of the 2025 CMU Food Drive
Carole Panno
Associate Director of Development, University Advancement
Staff Council Food Drive Committee Chair

jasujazumdinski