Skip to main content
Health and Safety
See something. Say something.
The well-being of every individual in the Carnegie Mellon University family is a top priority for the university. CMU offers a variety of health and safety services — from departments such as University Health Services to Environmental Health &amp; Safety to a dedicated University Police unit.
The mission of CMUSafe is to empower the CMU community to say something if we see something.

CMU Alert
The CMU Alert emergency notification service is available to all students, faculty and staff. The service sends voice and text messages in the event of an emergency on campus.
All current students, faculty and staff are automatically registered to receive alerts, as long as their contact information is up-to-date. Find more information on updating your contact information for CMU Alert.
Counseling and Psychological Services
Counseling and Psychological Services (CaPS) addresses the mental health needs of the CMU community through a variety of services. We provide a safe, confidential environment to talk about personal or academic concerns. We assist students who need to connect with mental health resources in the community and support staff, faculty and family members who have concerns about the well being of a student.
Morewood Gardens E-Tower, 2nd floor
412-268-2922
For an appointment, call during regular office hours. For urgent support, the phone is answered 24/7.
jasujazumdinski
Environmental Health &amp; Safety
Carnegie Mellon's Environmental Health &amp; Safety (EHS) Department is committed to providing health and safety services that protect the university community and the environment.
EH&amp;S supports all departments and campuses within Carnegie Mellon University including: academics, research, athletics, facilities and housing.
Facilities Management Building, 3rd floor
412-268-8182
Health Services
University Health Services is an accredited facility that delivers comprehensive primary health care with a certified and experienced team of physicians, nurse practitioners, dietitians, nurses and physician assistants. For faculty and staff, University Health Services offers seasonal flu vaccinations and additional services.
Morewood Gardens E-Tower, 1st floor
412-268-2157
Information Security Office
Carnegie Mellon's Information Security Office (ISO) collaborates with the campus community to protect Carnegie Mellon from and to respond to threats to our electronic information resources and computing and networking infrastructure.
412-268-2044
iso@andrew.cmu.edu
Police and EMS
University police and security officers patrol campus throughout the day and night. The CMU Police Department can be reached on the more than 50 special emergency phones throughout campus.
Carnegie Mellon's Emergency Medical Service handles urgent medical needs of the campus community during the academic year.
Why not call 911?
Safety and Ethics Reporting
Carnegie Mellon provides an Ethics and Safety Hotline that all members of the university community should use to confidentially report suspected unethical activity related to financial matters, academic and student life, human relations, health and campus safety or research.
jasujazumdinski
Sexual Assault and Relationship Violence
The University is dedicated to preventing and effectively responding to all forms of sexual misconduct, including sexual harassment, sexual violence, dating and domestic violence, and stalking.  If you would like more information, or if you would like to share concerns or seek help, please contact the Office of Title IX Initiatives to set up an appointment. If this is an emergency, please contact University Police at 412-268-2323.
412-268-7125
tix@cmu.edu
Related Offices

Equal Opportunity Services and Disability Resources
LGBTQ Resources
Recreation


jasujazumdinski