Access & Affordability
Financial need shouldn't stand in the way of bold ambitions.
Explore the resources designed to help make a Carnegie Mellon education possible for you.
CMU Pathway Program
Undergraduate students whose families earn $75,000 or less annually (with typical assets) will attend CMU tuition-free.
Undergraduate students whose families earn $100,000 or less annually (with typical assets) will have 100% of their financial need covered without federal loans. This means that loans will not be included as part of their financial aid offer.
Learn More About the Pathway Program
Tailored Financial Aid Solutions
CMU's comprehensive financial aid packages may include scholarships and grants, work-study opportunities and loans. In addition, we offer flexible payment options to help you manage costs and minimize debt.
Undergraduate Financial Aid Process
Graduate Financial Aid Process
Understanding Your Offer
Types of Financial Aid
Funding Future Leaders
We believe financial circumstances shouldn't limit exceptional students. That's why CMU aims to make our degrees affordable to our undergraduate students through grants and scholarships.
Read Our Pledge
$22.0m
CMU Investment in Financial Aid
CMU bolstered our investment in undergraduate financial aid by over 86% in the last 10 years – from $75.7 million in 2015 to $141.1 million in 2024.
jasujazumdinski
$2,936
Average Financial Aid Offer
Carnegie Mellon meets 100% of demonstrated financial need for all undergraduate students who are U.S. citizens and permanent residents, regardless of their family income.
$5,723
Average Post-Graduation Salary
90% of our 2024 graduates were employed or continued their education within 6 months after graduation.
What Is the FAFSA?
The Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) helps domestic students qualify for aid, such as federal grants and student loans.
Undergraduate Student FAFSA Info
Graduate Student FAFSA Info
Transparent Cost of Attendance
Invest in your future at CMU with confidence. We provide a clear breakdown of all education-related expenses, including tuition, fees, housing and meals for our undergraduate and graduate programs.
Explore Tuition and Fees
Need More Information?
Connect with Carnegie Mellon University to discuss financial aid options, scholarship opportunities and your path to making your education affordable.
Contact Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions Information
jasujazumdinski