Officers of the Corporation
Officers of the Corporation consist of the following: chair of the Board of Trustees, two vice chairs of the Board of Trustees, the president, chief financial officer, secretary, treasurer and vice presidents.
The duties and powers of all officers are determined by the Board. The chief financial officer, the treasurer and the secretary will hold office for one year and until their successors shall assume office. The chair and the vice chairs serve for a term of three years. The Board determines the length of the term the president serves. The Board may dismiss any officer for cause at any time. The election of officers takes place at each annual meeting of the Board, but officers may be elected at any meeting to fill vacancies. Any two or more offices may be held by the same person.
2025-26 Officers of the Corporation
David A. Coulter, Chair
Jeanne Cunicelli, Vice Chair
Anne M. Molloy, Vice Chair
Farnam Jahanian, President
James H. Garrett, Jr., Provost and Chief Academic Officer
David P. Bennett, Vice President for University Advancement
Angela Blanton, Vice President for Finance and Chief Financial Officer
Gina Casalegno, Vice President for Student Affairs and Dean of Students
Mary Jo Dively, Vice President and General Counsel, and Secretary of the Corporation
John Dolan, Treasurer
Tysen Kendig, Vice President for University Communications and Marketing
Charles A. Kennedy, Chief Investment Officer
Kate Lippert, Assistant Secretary of the Corporation
Theresa Mayer, Vice President for Research
Carrie Nelson, Assistant Treasurer
Stan Waddell, Vice President for Information Technology and Chief Information Officer
Daryl Weinert, Vice President for Operations
Copies of the Carnegie Mellon University Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws of Carnegie Mellon University are available to the public.
Please note that the above list is for informational purposes only. Mailings to members of the Board of Trustees will not be forwarded nor will members' personal contact information be disclosed.
jasujazumdinski