Update on Immigration Issues Affecting CMU and Available Resources
April 7, 2025
Dear Members of the Carnegie Mellon Community:
As President Jahanian shared in his recent community-wide message, we continue to navigate a shifting landscape in higher education that we know is disruptive and unsettling. As has happened at other institutions, we learned late last week that the student visas of two current CMU students and five recent graduates had been revoked and their records in the Student and Exchange Visitor Information System (SEVIS) had been terminated. These incidents understandably raise wider concerns for many in our community, and we take seriously our continued responsibility to ensure that our community is equipped with the information they need to navigate these uncertain times.
First, we acknowledge the distressing nature of this news, both for those impacted directly and for our broader global community. Linda Gentile, executive director of CMU’s Office of International Education (OIE), has reached out directly to the impacted individuals to offer immediate support. She has also connected them with information about legal resources to help them navigate this complex situation, ensuring they have the opportunity to access the due process that they deserve. We understand the sensitivity of this matter and are committed to safeguarding their privacy, which limits the information we can share publicly. At this time, we are not aware of any recent presence of immigration authorities on our campus.
The well-being of our students, faculty and staff remains a priority, and we continue to offer guidance and resources regarding both travel and immigration topics. OIE regularly shares information directly with international students and scholars regarding CMU visa documents and other immigration matters. Last week, Linda Gentile shared a communication with these individuals detailing considerations for upcoming international travel. Given the current complexities and uncertainties of the immigration environment, OIE strongly encourages careful consideration of potential risks before finalizing international travel plans.
To further support our community, OIE has published a series of FAQs regarding U.S. Immigration (ICE) Enforcement. This resource compiles advice from various resources, should a federal law enforcement agency contact you regarding the enforcement of immigration laws. While this guidance is not a substitute for legal advice, we hope it will be valuable to many in our community who are seeking information and support on this important topic.
In our ongoing commitment to ensure our community has access to concrete information and expert guidance, we have partnered with Klasko Immigration Law Partners to offer an in-person Open Forum on Immigration Policies on Monday, April 21, 6:30-7:30 p.m. ET in Rangos 2 and 3 of the Cohon University Center. This session, open to CMU students, faculty and staff of our Pittsburgh campus, will address the current immigration environment, possible immigration developments and potential impacts. Attendees will have the opportunity to ask questions and seek clarification about potential issues affecting their immigration status or ability to travel. Registration is required both to ensure this event remains exclusive to members of our CMU community and to plan effectively for capacity.
Additionally, on Tuesday, April 22, the university will sponsor free 15-minute in-person one-to-one consultations between attorneys from Klasko Immigration Law Partners and CMU students, faculty and staff. Registration for these sessions, which will focus on travel-related legal matters, will be available on the OIE website the week of April 14.
Linda Gentile has connected with the leadership of our Silicon Valley, Washington, D.C., and New York programs on these matters to ensure they have the resources and guidance they need.
We encourage members of our international community to utilize the resources outlined above and to reach out to the Office of International Education with any specific concerns or questions. We understand that this emerging immigration situation is creating anxiety and disruption for many and has directly impacted a subset of our community. Please know that we remain committed to keeping all members of our university community informed and supported, especially during this uncertain time.
Sincerely,
James H. Garrett Jr.
Provost and Chief Academic Officer
Gina Casalegno
Vice President for Student Affairs and Dean of Students
jasujazumdinski