Skip to main content

Prior Deeper Conversations Programming
Academic Year 2024-2025 Focus: Democracy and The Election and The Role of Government in Society
America and the World: What's Ahead After the 2024 Election?
President Farnam Jahanian was joined by David Ignatius, Washington Post Foreign Affairs Columnist, to discuss the state of U.S. democracy following the November election.
Watch America and the World
Bridging the Divide: Understanding and Addressing Political Polarization in America
On September 11, this panel, featuring professors Kevin Zollman, Jonathan Cervas, and Karina Schumann and moderated by Dean Richard Scheines, delved into the structural forces driving this polarization and explore potential solutions.
Watch Bridging The Divide
Immigration at the Ballot Box: Key Issue for 2024
As part of Heinz's Trillion Dollar Question series, this virtual panel explores the complexities of immigration, including its impact on the economy and communities, and its significance in the upcoming election. The panel features professors Brian Kovak, Filiz Garip, and Sabi Ardalan and is moderated by journalist Hamed Aleaziz from The New York Times.
Watch Immigration at the Ballot Box
Cyber-Enabled Nation-State Influence Operations: Are Russia, China and Iran Interfering in the U.S. Election?
This session examines recent evidence of nation-state interference in U.S. elections and discusses strategies to protect our democratic process from these threats. Panelists include Bret Schafer, Bryan Prior, and Darren Linvill and is moderated by CMIST Director Audrey Kurth Cronin.
Watch Cyber-Enabled Nation-State Influence Operations
jasujazumdinski
America and the World: What's Ahead After the 2024 Election?
President Farnam Jahanian was joined by David Ignatius, Washington Post Foreign Affairs Columnist, to discuss the state of U.S. democracy following the November election.
Watch America and the World
History of the Role of Government: Expansions, Reductions and Shaping the Nation
This panel explored the historical evolution of government's role in American life, tracing its origins in the founding principle of limited government to the New Deal's expansion of federal authority and the Great Society programs to the current calls for government reduction. The discussion provided historical context to help attendees better understand contemporary debates about the role of government in society.
America's Role in the World
Panelists explored the United States' historical and contemporary role in international affairs by examining past successes and missteps, the value of U.S. diplomacy in a rapidly changing world, and hte future of U.S. leadership in global affairs.
The Federal Government and Knowledge Production: Balancing Innovation, Policy and Public Good
This panel will explore the federal government's role in funding, shaping and disseminating knowledge across various sectors. It will highlight how federally sponsored research, health and medical centers and regulatory frameworks contribute to scientific advancements and public well-being. Panelists will focus on the mechanisms, benefits and challenges of federal involvement in knowledge production, translation and dissemination.
jasujazumdinski
Academic Year 2023-2024 Focus: The Israeli-Palestinian Conflict and Combating Hate in Society
Misinformation in Times of Conflict
On April 1, Zeve Sanderson, executive director of New York University's Center for Social Media and Politics, led a discussion and Q&amp;A session on the role of social media in the Israel-Hamas war. Participants explored which sources of information have been reliable and how misinformation has impacted the conflict.
Organized by the Dietrich College of Humanities and Social Sciences and Heinz College of Information Systems and Public Policy.
Watch Misinformation in Times of Conflict
Competing Narratives: Small Group Book Discussions
In March, several groups of students, faculty and staff met to discuss Neil Caplan’s book “The Israel-Palestine Conflict: Contested Histories” (Second Edition).
Addressing Campus Islamophobia: Proactive Efforts to Address Hate and Bias, a Workshop with Amer F. Ahmed
On February 19, 2023, Amer F. Ahmed, vice provost for diversity, equity and inclusion and senior diversity officer at the University of Vermont, delivered a keynote benefiting participants interested in learning more about Islam, Islamophobia and anti-Arab notions, providing needed context to bridge divides.
Organized by the Office of the Vice Provost for Community, Culture and Engagement.
Islamophobia: Dispelling Myths to Break Down Barriers with Keynote Speaker Amer F. Ahmed
This program held on February 19, 2023, benefited participants interested in learning more about Islam and Islamophobia, providing needed context to bridge divide.
Organized by the Office of the Vice Provost for Community, Culture and Engagement.
Watch Islamophobia: Dispelling Myths to Break Down Barriers
jasujazumdinski
Mapping the History of the Israeli-Palestinian Conflict
On February 15, 2024, Laurie Z. Eisenberg, teaching professor emerita in CMU's Department of History, provided an overview of the history of the movement of borders and populations in the region that is now Israel and Palestine from the 1880s until the present day. Using maps, she addressed issues leading up to the current Israel-Hamas war.
Organized by the Dietrich College of Humanities and Social Sciences and Heinz College of Information Systems and Public Policy.
Antiracism in Action Workshop
On February 13, 2024, Dr. Wanda Heading-Grant and Mark D'Angelo held an interactive workshop exploring what it means to be antiracist. They focused on concepts, skills and strategies to help translate antiracist beliefs and sentiments into action-oriented antiracist allyship within spheres of influence.
Organized by the Office of the Vice Provost for Community, Culture and Engagement.
The Possibility of Peace
On January 31, 2024 — moderated by Nevine Abraham, assistant teaching professor of Arabic Studies in the Department of Modern Languages, and Michal Friedman, Jack Buncher Professor of Jewish Studies in the Department of History — Rula Hardal and May Pundak shared their experiences as Palestinian and Jewish members of A Land for All, an organization advocating for peaceful resolution in the region.
Organized by the Dietrich College of Humanities and Social Sciences and Heinz College of Information Systems and Public Policy.
Watch the Possibility of Peace
jasujazumdinski
Understanding Antisemitism and its Impact on Jews
On January 30 and 31, 2024, Noah Schoen, Community Outreach Associate, Holocaust Center of Pittsburgh, discussed the historical roots of antisemitism, the connection those roots have to its modern day manifestations, and the collective impact that generations of antisemitism has had on the Jewish community.
Organized by the Office of the Vice Provost for Community, Culture and Engagement.
Educating &amp; Empowering Communities Against Antisemitism
This event featured a though-provoking and compelling presentation by Rabbi Charlie Cytron-Walker, who shared reflections on his experience as a survivor of the synagogue hostage crisis at Congregation Beth Israel in Colleybille, Texas in January 2022. Honoring the lives lost due to hatred, Rabbi Cytron-Walker provided insights on combating antisemitism through education and empowerment. We explored actionable strategies for creating a more inclusive and unified society and discovered how we can take on the collective responsibility of eradicating hate and prejudice, paving the way for a brighter and more harmonious future for all.
Organized by the Office of the Vice Provost for Community, Culture and Engagement.
Watch Educating &amp; Empowering Communities Against Antisemitism

2024-2025 Academic Coursework
CMU's Course Catalog offers a range of academic offerings focused on promoting productive discourse and addressing bias and hate. Other content explores key issues related to the Israel-Hamas War.
jasujazumdinski
Carnegie Mellon Institute for Strategy and Technology (CMIST)

84367 The Politics of Antisemitism
84304 In the News: Analysis of Current National Security Priorities
84226 International Relations
84323 War and Peace in the Contemporary Middle East
84365 The Politics of Fake News and Misinformation
84389 Terrorism and Insurgency
84325 Contemporary American Foreign Policy

Social and Decision Sciences

88234 Negotiation: International Focus

History

79145 Genocide and Weapons of Mass Destruction
79302 Killer Robots? The Ethics, Law, and Politics of Drones and A.I. in War
79224 The Making of the Modern Middle East
79355 Fake News: "Truth" in the History of American Journalism
79230 The Arab-Israeli Conflict and Peace Process Through 1948 to Present

CMU's Course Catalog has a range of academic offerings focused on promoting productive discourse on politics and democracy. Some of these offerings include:
Heinz College of Information Systems and Public Policy

90726 Disenfranchisement, Campaigns, and U.S. Election Policy
90714 Policy and Politics in American Institutions
90403/90703 Gender, Politics, and Policies in the U.S. and Across the World

History

79248 U.S. Constitution and the Presidency
79296 Religion in American Politics

Carnegie Mellon Institute for Strategy and Technology (CMIST)

84365 The Politics of Fake News and Misinformation
84338 Analysis of U.S. Presidential Powers

jasujazumdinski
Social and Decision Sciences

88230 Human Intelligence and Human Stupidity
88323 Policy in a Global Economy

Archived Community Messages

Navigating a Shifting Landscape (March 2025)
A New Deeper Conversations Focus (March 2025)
Commitment to Academic Excellence and Community Standards (February 2025)
Free Expression, Civil Discourse, and Deeper Conversations (September 2024)
Engaging in Deeper Conversations in 2024 and Beyond (January 2024)
Holding our Community to a Higher Standard (November 2023)
Supporting Those Affected by the Crisis in the Middle East (October 2023)
Follow up to Supporting Those Affected by the Crisis in the Middle East (October 2023)
Five Years on: Remembering 10.27.2018 (October 2023)

Co-authored by Provost and Chief Academic Officer Jim Garrett and Vice President for Student Affairs and Dean of Students Gina Casalegno:

Supporting our Community With Compassion (November 2023)

Co-authored by Vice Provost for Community, Culture and Engagement Wanda Heading-Grant and Assistant Vice Provost &amp; Title IX Coordinator Elizabeth Rosemeyer:

Launching CMU’s Campus Climate and Bias Reporting Protocol (CCBRP) (October 2023)

Co-authored by Bess Family Dean of the Dietrich College of Humanities and Social Sciences Richard Scheines and Dean of the Heinz College of Information Systems and Public Policy Ramayaa Krishnan:

Academic Series on the Historical and Political Context of the Israel-Hamas War (January 2024)


jasujazumdinski