Navigating a Shifting Landscape
March 26, 2025
Dear Members of the Carnegie Mellon Community:
Across higher education and beyond, we are witnessing a time of profound change — challenges that test us and opportunities that demand our boldest ideas. I know that we are all contemplating what this means for CMU and our community members, and I want to share some thoughts on how we are approaching this moment as an institution.
Recognizing that it is a busy time, here are four key takeaways from this message:
The potential harm to our national research and innovation enterprise is real. We are acting in concert with our peers to amplify the impact of our research on societal well-being and our national security and to convey this value to our elected officials.
We are not pausing Ph.D. admissions and remain committed to supporting access and opportunity for all our talented students — graduate and undergraduate.
We will not compromise our values. Even as the societal context evolves and legal changes require us to adapt, our commitment to fostering an inclusive and engaged community — one where freedom of speech and academic freedom are protected — remains unshakable.
While our institution’s financial health is strong, we are proactively assessing our budgets and being vigilant about our spending and hiring decisions.
jasujazumdinski
Support for Research and Innovation
One of the defining strengths of our university is its role as a leader in research and creative discovery. Carnegie Mellon is actively tackling the world’s most pressing challenges through scientific research and technological innovation while also providing a platform for humanity’s perspectives, ideas and voices to be heard and understood in an increasingly divided world.
A strong partnership between universities and the federal government has made this work possible for more than 75 years, contributing to knowledge creation, fueling innovation, strengthening our economy and improving the human condition. But today, this foundation is under intense pressure. Federal research funding — responsible for breakthroughs from the internet to life-saving medical treatments — is facing serious cuts that could undermine progress at a time when our societal well-being and global competitiveness depend on it more than ever.
The compact between the federal government and research universities is built on direct support for research, cost sharing and our own internal investment in the people and facilities that make groundbreaking discoveries possible. As an example, in FY24, for every federal research dollar invested in campus research, CMU contributed more than 40 cents from internal and philanthropic resources. A significant reduction in federal support for research would erode this partnership and, in the process, potentially slow scientific progress, weaken economic growth and undermine national security. It would also curtail opportunities for the next generation of researchers, with ripple effects on the nation's long-term competitiveness.
There is a great deal at stake in terms of how we move forward. To restore the federal compact, we must work in good faith to evolve these partnership models to serve the needs of the nation during this time of rapid transformation. Our leadership team is actively collaborating with peers at the AAU and with elected officials at both the state and federal levels to advocate for — and, when necessary, help reshape — policies that can reliably sustain our mission and amplify our impact. Critically important to this effort is the urgent need to renew public confidence in higher education. The real or perceived erosion of this trust is deeply concerning and, if left unaddressed, poses a serious threat to the foundations of discovery and progress. As a higher ed community, we must work intentionally to demonstrate the immense contributions we make to society — and our commitment to remain accessible and attuned to the challenges and opportunities of our time.
jasujazumdinski
Commitment to Educating the Next Generation
From its inception, Carnegie Mellon has been a place that welcomes diverse perspectives from across the nation and around the world, and over the decades, we have evolved to ensure that these brightest minds, regardless of their background or socioeconomic status, have the opportunity to flourish here. This dedication to access and opportunity, including growing resources for scholarships and fellowships, is critical to advancing our commitment to excellence.
As we take action to secure the future of research, we are also working to ensure stability for our educational mission, including our Ph.D. students. While some universities have paused all doctoral admissions, we have not. In fact, early results for both graduate and undergraduate admissions look strong. Our general approach is to continue to evaluate circumstances and make decisions that support our people, our academic and research missions, and our next generation of scholars. To this end, our leadership is working with deans and faculty to provide uninterrupted stipend and healthcare support for Ph.D. students for the next academic year, even if federal funding is disrupted.
I do wish to acknowledge that CMU was one of six universities to receive a letter from the House Select Committee on the Chinese Communist Party. The letter asks for aggregated information about CMU’s international students, insights into our policies and practices related to the participation of these students in research, and information about collaborations among the university and China-based universities and research institutions. We are carefully reviewing the letter and will respond to it appropriately, consistent with how we generally respond to requests from the federal government.
I am grateful to the Office of International Education for their attentive and considerate support of our international students, as many are understandably anxious at this time. Supporting our international community — academically, personally and through advocacy — remains an important priority for our academic units and our university leadership.
jasujazumdinski
A Commitment to Our Community Values
Even as external forces continue to evolve and legal changes require us to adapt, I want to be clear: Our commitment to fostering an inclusive, engaged and supportive community remains unshakable. If you are feeling particularly vulnerable in this climate, please know that we will continue to welcome and support you in pursuing your ambitions at CMU. We will not compromise our values, nor will we waver in our pursuit of excellence and our mission.
Our commitment to excellence is reflected in the practices and programs that we have created to foster a more accessible and supportive environment for those striving to achieve their full potential here. We believe these are in full compliance with the law, and we will proudly reaffirm and continue to strengthen our commitment to these efforts. At the same time, we are evaluating our broader DEI approach to ensure that no program or practice is unintentionally exclusionary — and if such instances arise, we are committed to acknowledging them and doing better.
To support this work, I have asked Provost Jim Garrett, Vice President and General Counsel Mary Jo Dively and Vice Provost for Community, Culture and Engagement Dr. Wanda Heading-Grant to lead a steering committee of university leaders and subject matter experts. Their charge is to help us thoughtfully assess our programs and materials — ensuring we remain aligned with our values, responsive to the current environment and steadfast in fostering an inclusive and supportive community.
jasujazumdinski
Championing Free Speech and Intellectual Diversity
At the heart of a thriving academic community is the ability to engage in open dialogue, exchange diverse perspectives and challenge ideas with intellectual rigor. Just as we remain steadfast in advancing access and opportunity, we must also be unwavering in our commitment to the fundamental principles of free speech and academic freedom. These values are not in opposition to one another — they are complementary forces that drive innovation, critical thinking and societal progress.
In today’s climate, we must be especially vigilant in safeguarding these freedoms, ensuring that Carnegie Mellon remains a place where difficult conversations can take place, where faculty’s academic freedom to engage in scholarship is protected, and where students are empowered to develop and share their own perspectives. I strongly believe that, in order to serve as a model for bridging societal divides, we must actively promote ideological and intellectual diversity within our community. This environment enriches our academic discourse and better prepares our students to contribute to a complex world. At its core, the true measure of a university education is how well the experience can empower students to ask questions, explore ideas and form their own perspectives. Put simply: we teach students how to think, not what to think.
In this spirit, Carnegie Mellon will continue to uphold the principles of free expression and seek to cultivate an environment where a multitude of perspectives are represented and welcomed. As we engage through Deeper Conversations and other efforts, let us remember to recognize our shared humanity and be kind to each other, give grace and avoid toxic language and symbols.
jasujazumdinski
Financial Health and Looking Ahead
Higher education is navigating significant financial and societal pressures. While CMU is not immune to those, our institution’s financial health is strong, and the university is well-positioned to manage some uncertainty in the short to intermediate term. We have grown our endowment significantly over the past few years, and while it currently supports 9% of our operating budget, most of our endowed funds include restrictions on how those funds are used, such as scholarships and professorships. Therefore, we are not able to use the endowment as a savings account we can dip into.
This is a time to be prudent. All academic and administrative units are proactively reviewing budget forecasts to better prepare us to adapt to a range of potential scenarios, and we are being vigilant about our spending and hiring decisions. We will approach this time with the same collaborative spirit that helped us overcome the financial and operational hurdles of the pandemic. As we move forward, we will be transparent in sharing further actions we may need to take to uphold our mission and maintain the university’s future financial health.
There is no question that the path ahead will require thoughtful adaptation and strategic decision-making. We are approaching this work grounded in three equally important and fundamental principles: maintaining academic and research excellence; supporting our people and our community; and securing the long-term sustainability of CMU to advance our mission. These guideposts allow us to evolve while preserving the strengths and values that make CMU a world leader.
I wish to acknowledge the extraordinary efforts of our academic and administrative leadership team. Provost Jim Garrett, Vice President for Research Theresa Mayer, Vice President for Student Affairs and Dean of Students Gina Casalegno and others have been leading a multitude of conversations across our university. Their efforts, and those of many others working around the clock, are helping to keep our community members informed, prepared and united in advocacy and action, and I extend my deepest thanks to all involved.
The road ahead will challenge us, but it is in challenges that we find our greatest opportunities. I have no doubt that Carnegie Mellon will rise to the occasion, just as we always have — with integrity and our trademark persistence in pursuing excellence. Each of you contributes to our university’s success. Ideas don’t power themselves. Discoveries don’t happen in isolation. Progress is built by people who question, test and push forward. Let us forge ahead, together, recognizing that we have a powerful role to play in defining not just our university's future but our nation’s prosperity.
Warm Regards,
Farnam Jahanian
President
Henry L. Hillman President’s Chair
jasujazumdinski