Skip to main content

Research &amp; Creativity
CMU transforms the world through discovery and expression.
Since our founding in 1900, Carnegie Mellon University students and faculty have used creativity and ingenuity to drive cross-disciplinary breakthroughs.
Field-Defining Contributions
From developing robots that inspect hazardous environments to composing musicals, our researchers and artists challenge conventional thinking. See how CMU’s brilliant minds, world-class facilities and collaborative culture help increase human knowledge and enhance lives around the world.

Robotics Innovation
0
The number of robots that call our Robotics Institute home. Get to know bots like Andy 2, FRIDA and more.
Ethics in Artificial Intelligence
Responsible Innovation
As the birthplace of AI, CMU understands the need to design and deploy this powerful technology responsibly. With brilliant minds, state-of-the-art facilities and interdisciplinary partnerships, we chart an AI strategy that will lead to a more just and equitable world.

Startups Created
0
+
CMU's entrepreneurial spirit and commitment have enabled the launch of over 400 startups and spinoffs, including Duolingo, Modcloth and Accel Partners.
World-Class Facilities
Crafting Collaboration
IDeATe facilities offer collaborative maker spaces, including multiple fabrication labs, a physical computing lab and a versatile black box theater.

Drama Kings &amp; Queens
0
st
CMU awarded the first U.S. drama degree in 1914, starting a legacy as leaders in the performing arts. In fact, our alumni have won 66 Tony Awards.
jasujazumdinski
CMU Research News

Oct 01, 2025
The Long Game: Years of CMU Discoveries Drive New Parkinson's Treatment

Sep 30, 2025
Peacocks Eating Ice Cream: CMU Philosophers Teaching AI to Ask 'Why?'

Sep 22, 2025
Better Screening Tool for Sickle Cell Disease Progression

Sep 17, 2025
Decoding the Brain’s Hand ‘Alphabet’ Could Transform Prosthetics and Brain-Computer Interfaces

Sep 17, 2025
SEI Tool Helps Federal Agencies Detect AI Bias and Build Trust

Sep 10, 2025
CMU Research Uses AI to Better Predict Kidney Failure

Sep 09, 2025
AI’s Role in the Future of Discovery

Sep 09, 2025
Physical AI Fuels the Machines of Tomorrow

Sep 03, 2025
CMU Students Help Low-Income Workers Claim Tax Credits Worth Thousands

Sep 03, 2025
NIL Levels the Playing Field in College Football, Study Finds

Aug 27, 2025
Improving Indoor Air Quality With More Effective, Long-Lasting Sensors

Aug 27, 2025
Students Develop Tool To Help American Red Cross Estimate Shelter Needs After Earthquakes

Aug 26, 2025
Team Brings Lung Cancer Into Focus with 3D Imaging Innovation

Aug 25, 2025
Eight Carnegie Mellon Students Named SoftBank Group–Arm Fellows

Aug 20, 2025
Laurie Heller Is Changing How We Understand, and Potentially Treat, Misophonia

Aug 20, 2025
What Happens in the Brain When it Learns Something New

Aug 13, 2025
jasujazumdinski
The AI Tool That Could Make Manufacturing Faster and More Efficient — by Using Lego Bricks

Aug 13, 2025
Meditation Apps Deliver Real Health Benefits, Research Finds

Aug 13, 2025
New Robotic Agricultural Sensor Could Revolutionize Farming

Aug 06, 2025
Carnegie Mellon’s MoonRanger Slated To Fly on 2029 Lunar Mission

Aug 06, 2025
CMU Celebrates 2025 Fulbright Recipients

Aug 05, 2025
Finding Answers Faster: AI Method Brings Hope to Rare Disease Research

Aug 04, 2025
New NSF Institute at CMU Will Help Mathematicians Harness AI and Advance Discoveries

Jul 30, 2025
AI Chatbots Remain Confident — Even When They’re Wrong
Load More Stories

Leading the World in Doing AI Work that Matters
CMU spearheads AI innovation and solutions through our multidisciplinary approach, integrating the latest technologies with ethics at every level. See how our AI work doesn't just advance technology — it benefits humanity.
AI at CMU
Creativity Is at Our Core
CMU’s visionaries redefine artistic norms by fusing technology with creative research and expression, from staging renowned performances to crafting avant-garde installations that provoke new perspectives.

Blending the boundaries of the physical and digital, extended reality and machine learning help train skilled workers in creative arts and manufacturing.

Expanding the landscape of instrumental performance, fusing video, live musical performance and pre-recorded and edited music.

Shifting the architectural design paradigm from a sustainable to a more regenerative practice.

Exploring the creative and technical fringes of theater production and design.
PreviousNext
1/4
jasujazumdinski
Centers &amp; Institutes
With more than 100 CMU research centers and institutions, our students tackle complex challenges across a broad range of interests and industries. This curated selection showcases a few of the pioneering hubs where we work to solve real-world problems.
View More Centers and Institutes
The Block Center
Studies how AI and similar technologies may reshape the future of work and be harnessed for social good.
Scott Institute
Focused on developing and demonstrating the technologies, systems, and policies needed to accelerate the transition toward a more sustainable future.
Gelfand Center for Service Learning &amp; Outreach
Works to strengthen STEM education for K-12 students through faculty/student outreach, teacher training, tutoring and on-campus activities.
Institute for Strategy &amp; Technology
Researches the political, ethical, social and economic impacts of emerging technologies, such as AI and cybersecurity, through cross-disciplinary partnerships.
Neuroscience Institute
Drives neural science breakthroughs, integrating neuroscience, psychology and computing. Past innovations include cognitive tutors and Watson.
The Humanities Center
Champions interdisciplinary humanities research and teaching through lectures, conferences and public events to demonstrate the vital role of the humanities at CMU.
Research and Creative Opportunities
Engage your creative and analytical mind through our numerous programs and resources.
$0
Our Summer Undergraduate Research Fellowship (SURF) program pays you to do research. Learn about undergraduate research opportunities.
jasujazumdinski
0+
Research centers and institutes addressing a broad range of interests and industries.
$0
The C.G. Douglas “Wrong Way” Corrigan Summer Travel Fellowship provides up to $1,500 for a summer travel project to a student in the School of Art.
Meet the VP for Research
The Office of the Vice President for Research leads CMU’s research endeavors, fostering collaboration across disciplines and providing comprehensive support services for faculty, students and staff.

Office of Sponsored Programs (OSP)
Office of Research Integrity and Compliance (ORIC)
Center for Technology Transfer and Enterprise Creation
Office of Government Relations

Research at Carnegie Mellon
Explore how CMU's colleges and schools lead the charge to a better future through innovative research.

College of Engineering
College of Fine Arts
Heinz College of Information Systems and Public Policy
Dietrich College of Humanities &amp; Social Sciences
Mellon College of Science
School of Computer Science
Tepper School of Business


jasujazumdinski