Leadership
Key Academic and Administrative Leaders
Carnegie Mellon University is led by a Board of Trustees, with its day-to-day operations and academic decisions falling under the direction of the President, Provost, Senior Administration and Deans.
Board of Trustees
The President
The Provost
Senior Administration
Deans
The President
As Carnegie Mellon's 10th president, Farnam Jahanian guides the university's strategic vision and priorities.
Meet the President
The Provost
As provost and chief academic officer, James H. Garrett Jr. oversees CMU's schools, colleges, institutes and campuses.
Meet the Provost
Senior Leaders
CMU's leaders seek to evolve and advance the university's mission through expert governance, operations and academics. Learn more when you review the Leadership Organizational Chart [PDF].
Board of Trustees
As CMU's governing body, the Board of Trustees bears ultimate responsibility for the university, its policies, organization, financing and governance.
Senior Administrators
Senior administrators serve to support CMU's strategic growth and priorities across a number of fronts, such as teaching, research, student affairs and more.
Deans
CMU's deans are leading academics, researchers and experts who are also passionate about teaching and learning. Each academic dean represents a single school or college and works to create and promote innovative educational and research opportunities for their students, faculty and staff.
jasujazumdinski
Leadership Structure
The university's organizational structure is designed to foster cooperation, agility and resilience. CMU leaders work within this structure to advance and promote the highest standards of academic excellence, research innovation and creative exploration.
The Board of Trustees serve as CMU's highest governing body. This board appoints the university's president, sets the institution's strategic priorities and guides its long-term growth.
The president acts on behalf of the Board of Trustees to represent Carnegie Mellon University and its interests both domestically and internationally. The president works in close collaboration with the Board and the university community to appoint the provost and chief academic officer and other senior administrators.
The provost's diverse set of responsibilities include promoting the university's commitment to academic excellence, supporting faculty advancement and setting budgetary priorities for CMU's schools and colleges. To realize these priorities, the provost works regularly and directly with the university's president, senior administrators and deans.
View CMU's Leadership Organizational Chart
Deeper Conversations
Strategic Framework
Regional Impact
jasujazumdinski