Work That Matters
What if all communities were future-ready?
Securing a Healthier, More Resilient World
CMU researchers are working to safeguard lives, secure our future and strengthen national resilience. That means we save lives, help systems adapt in the face of disruption, and engineer life-saving medical breakthroughs. We protect community health, strengthen security and privacy, empower U.S. manufacturing and make streets safer. Whether leveraging energy expertise through AI or preparing for the next global emergency, our work supports a safer, more sustainable future.
Predicting Kidney Failure
CMU researchers have created AI models can predict which patients with chronic kidney disease will go on to develop end-stage renal disease.
Sickle Cell Screening
A simple, noninvasive light-based technology could help doctors better track how sickle cell disease affects the brain as patients age.
Parkinson's Disease Hope
Aryn Gittis’ research is shaping a new treatment for Parkinson’s disease that could give patients longer-lasting relief.
What if robotic caregivers could improve independence?
CMU researchers are developing new technology to enable robots to physically interact with people who are not able to care for themselves.
These breakthroughs are being deployed in the real world, making it possible for individuals with neurological diseases, stroke, multiple sclerosis, ALS and dementia to be able to eat, clean and get dressed fully on their own.
Play video
jasujazumdinski
What if every worker was trained for an AI world?
Reimagining the Future of Work, Education and Human Potential
Whether it’s immersive workforce training or AI-powered classrooms, CMU is shaping a future where workforce development, learning science, and human-computer interaction elevate human potential. We’re not just improving learning; we’re strengthening the workforce and supporting economic growth.
Tax Credit Help
A team of graduate students created resources to help low-income workers learn about the Earned Income Tax Credit.
Name, Image and Likeness
Researchers found that NIL rules are making college football fairer and more exciting.
AI and Learning
Research examines the impact of generative AI tools on teaching and learning.
Innovation At Work
22+
Spin-Offs Created Since 2004
$1B+
Investment Raised After Launch
28
Patents Issued Since 2004
What if curiosity powered national progress?
Advancing Discovery, Robotics, AI and Innovation
We expand the frontiers of AI, new materials and the future of robotics, to tackle humanity’s biggest challenges, drive economic opportunity and improve lives.
Brain Research
Understanding how people use tools fluidly could lead to better prosthetics, brain-computer interfaces, robots and new ways to treat problems caused by brain injury.
Trusting AI
A new tool helps agencies uncover why AI systems may produce biased or unreliable results.
Chemists and AI
By teaming AI with human know-how, collaborators have found a faster way to make better rubber-like materials.
jasujazumdinski
What if we guided AI to ensure we make the world better?
CMU researchers view AI as a powerful tool to improve decision-making and are working to address risks like bias and lack of transparency.
Their mission is to develop AI responsibly, ensuring it drives fair and equitable outcomes that reach and uplift communities.
Play video
What if technology was guided by ethics and the human spirit?
Creating Meaning in the Digital Age
CMU leads with both research and creative practice to guide innovation with intention. Our artists, humanists and technologists work together to explore what it means to live in a digital world through ethical inquiry, inclusive design and expressive technologies that improve the human experience.
Trustworthy AI
Research explains what happens when AI chatbots overestimate their abilities and how humans can build trust.
Misophonia Help
Laurie Heller Is changing how we understand and potentially treat the condition.
Why-Driven AI
Teaching AI to understand the “why” behind complex problems could transform healthcare, education, generative AI and more.
Learn More about Carnegie Mellon Research
Frequently Asked Questions
Research & Creativity
Centers & Institutes
Energy & Innovation
jasujazumdinski