Skip to main content

Vision, Mission and Values
Empowering the Next Generation of World-Changers
Carnegie Mellon University’s vision, mission and values guide us in providing an exceptional educational experience and creating a diverse community of creators, inventors and leaders. See how they help us cultivate an open, cooperative culture that values entrepreneurial thinking and addresses real-world problems.
Vision
Carnegie Mellon University will have a transformative impact on society through continual innovation in education, research, creativity and entrepreneurship.
Mission

To create a transformative educational experience for students focused on deep disciplinary knowledge; problem-solving; leadership, communication and interpersonal skills; and personal health and well-being.
To cultivate a transformative university community committed to (a) attracting and retaining diverse, world-class talent; (b) creating a collaborative environment open to the free exchange of ideas, where research, creativity, innovation and entrepreneurship can flourish; and (c) ensuring individuals can achieve their full potential.
To impact society in a transformative way — regionally, nationally and globally — by engaging with partners outside the traditional borders of the university campus.

Values

Dedication, reflected in our distinctive work ethic and in our commitment to excellence
Impact, reflected in our commitment to address critical issues facing society regionally, nationally and globally
Collaboration, reflected in our interdisciplinary approach, our focus on internal and external partnerships, and our capacity to create new fields of inquiry
Creativity, reflected in our openness to new ideas and forms of expression, intellectual curiosity, willingness to take risks and entrepreneurial spirit
Empathy and compassion, reflected in our focus on improving the human condition and on the personal development of the members of our community
Inclusion, reflected in a culture and climate that seeks, welcomes and advances talented minds from diverse backgrounds
Integrity, reflected in our adherence to the highest ethical standards in personal and professional behavior, and in our commitment to transparency and accountability in governance and everything we do
Sustainability, reflected in our shared commitment to lead by example in preserving and protecting our natural resources, and in our approach to responsible financial planning

jasujazumdinski
A History of Work that Matters
In 1900, philanthropist Andrew Carnegie donated $1 million to found a school where students from all backgrounds could gain skills to uplift their careers and communities. Over 100 years later, CMU continues that spirit as a global leader in education and research.
Learn More About CMU's History

Commitment to Belonging
Ranging perspectives and experiences catalyze CMU’s passionate and uninhibited spirit. That’s why we cultivate an environment with educational access and community engagement so all feel welcomed, supported and empowered to achieve their full potential.
Planning for CMU’s Future
CMU’s Strategic Framework provides a vision to drive the university's mission through education, research and global impact. Learn about the plan’s accomplishments and how we are updating it to meet our future endeavors and goals.
Learn About Our Strategic Framework

jasujazumdinski