Skip to main content

The President
President's Welcome
Carnegie Mellon University is a global leader in launching and leveraging opportunities at the intersections of society, technology and creativity. We are also home to some of the world’s greatest scholars and brightest talents in a learning environment that stands apart for its interdisciplinary scope, commitment to innovation and real-world impact.
On behalf of the university’s leadership team: Welcome to Carnegie Mellon, where we are busy envisioning and building a better future together.
Sincerely,
Farnam Jahanian
Farnam Jahanian
President
Henry L. Hillman President's Chair
Read More Messages From the President

About the President
Farnam Jahanian, CMU’s 10th president, is a nationally recognized computer scientist, entrepreneur and public servant who leads important conversations about evolving higher education to better adapt to the future of work and expand the footprint of U.S. innovation.
Read President Jahanian's Biography

Key Initiatives
Learn about President Jahanian's initiatives to advance the university's academic and research mission, build bridges of understanding and elevate issues of emerging and preeminent relevance to society.
Strategic Framework
The university's Strategic Framework, launched in 2025, establishes a clear roadmap for assessing and advancing the institution's persistent pursuit of excellence.
The President's Lecture Series
This annual series, which pairs a distinguished lecture with a fireside chat for each event, brings some of society's greatest thought leaders and world leaders to campus.
jasujazumdinski
Deeper Conversations
This initiative utilizes the power of civil discourse to help the CMU community explore some of the most divisive and complex issues facing humanity today.
PAB for Enterprise Creation, Entrepreneurship and Industry Engagement
The PAB for Enterprise Creation, Entrepreneurship and Industry Engagement was convened in Fall 2023 to assess CMU’s current enterprise creation, entrepreneurship and corporate engagement ecosystems.
The Fence Working Group
This working group is dedicated to advancing conversations about the role of the Fence in campus life today and in the future. It will bring forward recommendations that preserve the spirit of the tradition while addressing the realities of modern society and the needs of our diverse campus community.

Related Links

The President's Staff
Past Presidents
Contact Us
In the News


jasujazumdinski