Skip to main content

Where Precision Meets Passion
Cultural Impact
A Cultural Catalyst for Pittsburgh
At Carnegie Mellon University, creativity, innovation and community unite to make a lasting impact beyond campus. Through dynamic partnerships, public programming and outreach initiatives, CMU is proud to be a cultural catalyst for Pittsburgh — a place where creativity drives connection, and where art, education and innovation inspire the region and the world. Learn about some of CMU’s cultural contributions below.
Partnering for Impact
A CMU student performs at the Lunar Gala on campus in March 2025.
Through a groundbreaking and exclusive partnership with The American Theatre Wing’s Tony Awards, Carnegie Mellon presents the annual Excellence in Theatre Education Award, which recognizes an outstanding K-12 theater educator in the United States and elevates the work of theater educators across the country.
Locally, CMU maintains a longstanding relationship with the Carnegie Museums of Pittsburgh, collaborating on research, exhibitions and educational programs. The university also prioritizes public art on and off campus, commissioning works that invite reflection and engage the broader community in shared cultural experiences.
The opening reception of the School of Art MFA Class of 2025 thesis exhibition, "Holding Still, Holding On"  in March 2025 at The Warhol.
In late 2024, CMU broke ground on the Richard King Mellon Hall of Sciences, where science, technology, art and creativity will converge in new and exciting ways. Nestled next to the Carnegie Museums of Art and Natural History, the RK Mellon Hall of Sciences will also house the Institute of Contemporary Art Pittsburgh, which is positioned to further elevate artistic discourse throughout the city and the art world at large. The RK Mellon Hall of Sciences will be a welcoming destination for both the campus and Pittsburgh communities, offering event, exhibition and gathering spaces.
jasujazumdinski
Preserving and Celebrating Cultural Heritage and History
Carnegie Mellon University’s exhibition, “Here to Stay: Celebrating 40 Years at the Architecture Archives 1984-2024,” highlights four decades of the collection.
The arts are embedded in the history and identity of Carnegie Mellon. In the early 20th century, Pittsburgh was the industrial capital of the world. As industry thrived, so did Pittburgh’s cultural assets, like our world-class museums, galleries and symphony orchestra.
From the 1930s to the 1970s, Charles “Teenie” Harris captured Pittsburgh life as one of the principal photographers for The Pittsburgh Courier, once a leading newspaper for Black communities. The Carnegie Museum of Art (CMOA) has scanned and cataloged 60,000 of Harris’ images. A collaboration between Carnegie Mellon and Newcastle University faculty paired a portion of Harris’ photographs with the voices of people who lived during this time and created the exhibit, “ Teenie Harris Photographs: In Their Own Voice” at the CMOA.
Pastor Tim Smith of Center of Life, Hazelwood, signs the community beam before being lifted and secured in place at the Robotics Innovation Center Topping Off Ceremony, 2024.
In the Greater Hazelwood neighborhood, Carnegie Mellon’s new Robotics Innovation Center will serve as a hub of robotics research and testing. To honor the history of the Hazelwood Green site, the center will include a permanent public exhibit showcasing the lives and livelihood of the historic area along the Monongahela River, including the Jones &amp; Laughlin Steel Mill and its workers, as well as the history of robotics. It will also serve as a space where the community can engage with world-class roboticists and learn about emerging technologies in robotics and artificial intelligence.
CMU’s Center for Arts in Society sponsors community projects that use the arts as a forum for educational and social work focused on Pittsburgh’s underserved populations. These projects are the result of discussions among Center members and collaboration across fields, as well as partnerships with community groups and consultations with local arts and cultural organizations.
jasujazumdinski
Broadening Participation in the Arts and Humanities
City Charter High School students in the 2024–25 LEAP program.
Founded in 2003, Arts Greenhouse is an arts and humanities outreach program that fosters the expressive and intellectual development of Pittsburgh’s youth. The program’s learning curriculum and research projects center on the ever-changing issues impacting youth and communities. By providing safe spaces and proactive platforms for collective creativity, the Arts Greenhouse provides a platform for youth to grow as individuals through local community engagement by asking them to reflect, connect, and explore creatively.
LEAP (Leadership, Excellence, Access, and Persistence) is a collaboration between the Dietrich College of Humanities and Social Sciences and the College of Fine Arts. This educational partnership between Carnegie Mellon and City Charter High School uses storytelling in the arts, humanities and social sciences to empower high school students to learn with and from local artists, activists, scholars, and CMU faculty seeking to create positive change in the world.
Opening Reception of the 2024 Architecture Thesis Show at Rockwell Park.
The Center for Architecture Explorations (CAE), housed within CMU’s School of Architecture, connects K-12 students with architecture and design through workshops, exhibitions and curriculum development. By sparking early interest in the built environment, CAE strengthens CMU's role in shaping an inclusive and imaginative future for Pittsburgh's urban landscape.
From student-led theater productions to world-class concerts, CMU's College of Fine Arts offers a robust calendar of events that are open to the public. Local audiences are invited to experience cutting-edge performances, experimental works and timeless classics on campus stages like the Purnell Center for the Arts.

jasujazumdinski
Get Involved
Volunteer or partner with us to help create lasting economic and community impact in the region.
Discover Opportunities

jasujazumdinski