Work That Matters: Frequently Asked Questions
What kind of research does Carnegie Mellon University do?
Carnegie Mellon University research shapes industries, improves lives and defines the future. Known for pioneering work in artificial intelligence, robotics and computer science, we also excel in engineering, brain and cognitive sciences, public policy and the digital arts. The university’s collaborative culture encourages groundbreaking research that addresses real-world challenges, from developing autonomous vehicles and smart city infrastructure to advancing healthcare technologies and exploring the ethical implications of AI. With a spirit of innovation and a commitment to serving the people who work alongside emerging technologies, CMU’s research transforms ideas into solutions that shape industries, cities and lives.
How is research funded at CMU and other universities?
Research at CMU is funded through a mix of federal contracts and grants, private industry partnerships, foundations and philanthropic gifts. More than half of CMU’s research funding comes from federal government agencies such as the National Institutes of Health, National Science Foundation, Department of Energy, Department of Defense, and the U.S. Department of Agriculture.
These competitive grants reflect public priorities identified by Congress and federal agencies as vital to the country. Elected representatives, acting on behalf of their constituents, choose to invest in university research that addresses national challenges in health, security, education and more.
jasujazumdinski
Can CMU use its endowment funds, tuition or donations to pay for research?
Like most universities, CMU’s endowment consists of donor-restricted and unrestricted funds. Some portions of the endowment are earmarked specifically to support research, such as endowed faculty chairs, research fellowships, or specific research initiatives.
Tuition generally funds education-related expenses, not research.
How does CMU use research dollars responsibly?
At CMU, we treat every federal research dollar with the highest level of care and accountability. Our faculty — themselves taxpayers — often contribute more time than grants cover and accept salaries below industry levels to pursue work that serves the public good. They not only lead groundbreaking research, but also mentor and train the next generation of innovators, creating long-term value for society. Federal support is frequently leveraged to attract additional funding, amplifying its impact. All of this happens within one of the most rigorously regulated financial and ethical research environments in the world.
Is university research a good investment?
Absolutely. Every dollar invested in research returns over two dollars in economic activity. A recent study) found that each $1 invested in the National Institutes of Health generated $2.56 in new economic activity. Landmark efforts such as the human genome project delivered a 14:1 return on investment.
At CMU, federally-funded research has led to pioneering autonomous vehicle discoveries, medical breakthroughs that aid stroke recovery and tools that improve national cybersecurity, to name a few. These discoveries, among many others from Carnegie Mellon, have created jobs, companies and new industries in Pittsburgh and across the U.S.
jasujazumdinski
What are “facilities and administrative” (F&A) costs?
F&A costs are expenses incurred during the research process that are reimbursed to the university at a pre-negotiated federal rate. These expenses are associated with operating and maintaining specialized research facilities and labs, complying with federal regulations, maintaining our research computing infrastructure, keeping data secure and more. Historically, the government has partnered with universities to pay these necessary research expenses, just as it does when it contracts with industry or uses its own federal labs.
See Frequently Asked Questions about Facilities and Administrative (F&A) Costs of Federally Sponsored University Research%3B%20radiation) from the Association of American Universities.
jasujazumdinski