Skip to main content
Vice President for Finance and Chief Financial Officer

Angela Blanton
Angela Blanton was appointed Carnegie Mellon University's vice president for Finance and Chief Financial Officer in 2017 after serving as interim vice president and CFO in 2016.
As CFO, Blanton provides strategic leadership for the university's business and finance functions, as well as for the management of its financial and capital resources. She oversees Budget and Financial Planning, Business Applications Development and Support, the Controller's Office, Procurement Services, the Treasurer's Office, Finance Training and Communications, and University Audit Services. Within those units lie critical business functions including (but not limited to) payroll, financial reporting, accounts receivable and payable, sponsored project accounting, international operations, and financial systems. Blanton is highly collaborative across all functions to support the university's vision of transformative impact on society through continual innovation in education, research, creativity and entrepreneurship.
Blanton has over two decades of experience in finance, project management and engineering disciplines within the higher education, financial services and manufacturing industries; prior to joining Carnegie Mellon, she was CFO for PNC Investments.
Blanton serves on the board of the global asset management firm GCM Grosvenor, which became a public company in 2020. She is chair of Pittsburgh Public Theater's Board of Trustees, and volunteers on several other non-profit boards, including the Black Economic Advancement Mobility (BEAM) Collaborative and the National Association of College and University Business Officers (NACUBO). Additionally, Blanton serves on the Inclusive &amp; Equitable Economy Committee for the Pennsylvania Economy League of Greater Pittsburgh (PELGP).
Blanton received her bachelor of science in electrical engineering from the University of Michigan, and her MBA from the Tepper School of Business at Carnegie Mellon University.

jasujazumdinski