Skip to main content

Building the Boom
Carnegie Mellon University's Growing Impact on the Local, Regional and State Economies
These are exciting times for CMU and the Pittsburgh region. Since 2016, the university’s annual economic impact across Pennsylvania has surged by nearly $600 million — a 23% increase in just four years.
Key factors in this growth include an 11% increase in research enterprise and a dynamic set of new capital investments such as TCS Hall, ANSYS Hall and Tepper Quad.
At CMU, real-world outcomes drive everything we do. Our faculty, students, staff and alumni collaborate with industry and community leaders to create change, inspiring world-class innovation and entrepreneurship. Our breakthrough research and education in technologies like AI and robotics are attracting global corporations and creating new opportunities in every sector of the economy, from manufacturing to health care.
Together, we’re working smarter. Transforming businesses, neighborhoods and lives. Together, we’re forging a better tomorrow.

Building Growth in Our Communities
CMU is working to engineer groundbreaking solutions for global challenges while also developing partnerships that engage the community and drive economic growth. You can see these efforts from our National Robotics Engineering Center (NREC) facility in Pittsburgh's Lawrenceville neighborhood to the Hazelwood Green ecosystem taking shape in the Greater Hazelwood neighborhood in Pittsburgh.
jasujazumdinski
Creating Economic Impact Across Pennsylvania
0+
jobs supported statewide
in direct, indirect and induced jobs, including construction, food service, technology, tourism and transportation
$0billion
in economic impact across Pennsylvania
including capital investments, annual operations, visitor spending and wage premium
$0million
tax revenue generated annually in Pennsylvania
with $14.2 million generated in the city of Pittsburgh
$0.0 billion
annually in economic impact in Pittsburgh
0
corporate partnerships
$0million
annual impact from student and visitor spending
and $58 million annual impact of the alumni wage premium
0+
startups created by students and faculty since 2010
$0million
annual impact of capital investment in Pittsburgh
$0.0 billion
annual impact of operations across the region

As we embrace this tech-driven economy, universities like Carnegie Mellon are playing a growing and central role in the innovation ecosystem, helping to drive regional and national economic growth. This latest impact report underscores our commitment to the community and the special, symbiotic relationship that Carnegie Mellon has with this city, this region, the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, and the public, private and nonprofit partners that we work closely with every day.
Farnam Jahanian
President of Carnegie Mellon University

What Do the Numbers Really Mean?

2017 Economic Impact Report [PDF]
2019 Economic Impact Report [PDF]
2020 Economic Impact [PDF]

jasujazumdinski
25 Years of NREC
A new report marks 25 years since the National Robotics Engineering Center's (NREC) founding, with new data points to demonstrate the real economic impact of a world-class research center on its surroundings.
Read the Full NREC Report

Stories of Economic Impact

Jul 28, 2025
Carnegie Mellon Research Forecasts Nation’s AI Energy Needs

Jul 15, 2025
Energy and Innovation Summit Brings Government and Industry Leadership to CMU

Jul 11, 2025
CMU Startups Bring Energy Innovation to Market

Jun 30, 2025
Carnegie Mellon University Announces Swartz Center for Entrepreneurship Leadership Transition

May 20, 2025
New Study Reviews Decades of Findings on Effects of Physical Work Environments On Firms’ Organizational Processes and Outcomes

Apr 02, 2025
Smoke from US Wildfires, Prescribed Burns Caused Premature Deaths, Billions in Health Damages

Mar 10, 2025
Tepper Professor Linda Argote Appointed to World Economic Forum Council

Jan 28, 2025
Carnegie Mellon University Researchers Develop Metric To Measure US Gaps in EV Charging

Oct 29, 2024
Tepper School Researcher Advocates for New Framework To Measure Sustainable Economic Growth

Oct 15, 2024
AI Horizons and Beyond: CMU Welcomes Revolution in Human-First AI to Pittsburgh
Load More Stories

Get Involved
Volunteer or partner with us to help create lasting economic and community impact in the region.
Discover Opportunities

jasujazumdinski