Locations
Explore Our Campuses
With four campuses on three continents and numerous partnerships with educational institutions worldwide, Carnegie Mellon University has an international identity. In all of our locations, we empower students to become socially responsible citizens equipped to address local and global challenges through boundary-breaking, collaborative efforts. See how CMU’s global partnerships unite scholars at the forefront of their fields to accelerate innovation.
"Making an impact is a really major part of who I am as a professional. So, when I heard about the CMU Engineering program and being able to work on African problems, I jumped at the opportunity."
Tanya Akumu ‘21
M.S. Electrical and Computer Engineering, Carnegie Mellon University Africa
Read Tanya's Story
Carnegie Mellon University in Pittsburgh
Our flagship campus in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania offers a vibrant hub of learning and innovation. With world-class academics, state-of-the-art facilities and a dynamic urban setting, this campus is the heartbeat of our academic community.
Visit Carnegie Mellon
Carnegie Mellon University in Africa
Our Carnegie Mellon Africa campus in Kigali, Rwanda, aims to educate and empower the next generation of African leaders and innovators through graduate programs in information technology, electrical and computer engineering, and artificial intelligence.
Explore CMU-Africa
jasujazumdinski
Carnegie Mellon Portugal Program
CMU Portugal aims to place Portugal at the forefront of Information and Communication Technologies (ICT) through education and talent development, research and innovation, and industry collaboration.
Explore CMU Portugal
Carnegie Mellon University in Qatar
Carnegie Mellon Qatar offers undergraduate programs in computer science, biological sciences, business administration and computational biology. This campus fosters cross-cultural exchange and cutting-edge research in the heart of the Middle East.
Explore CMU-Q
Our Global Presence
CMU Global Map - Google My Maps
Open full screen to view more
This map was created by a user. Learn how to create your own.
Global Locations
Pittsburgh Main Campus
Branch Campuses
Additional Locations
Other Instructional Sites
University Exchanges
Department Exchanges
“At CMU-Q, I realized I could complement my education in CS with math that you usually don’t see in the CS field. I completed a minor in mathematical sciences, and it was a very good way to satisfy my interest and curiosity.”
Dirham Tabaa ‘24
B.S. Computer Science, Carnegie Mellon University Qatar
Read Dirham's Story
Our Global Student Footprint