Skip to main content
From Research to Commercialization: Encouraging Energy and Climate Tech Entrepreneurship
By Katelyn Haas-Conrad
For entrepreneurs, the path from fundamental research to commercialization is risky, but Carnegie Mellon University support has helped launch several start-ups in energy and climate tech.
Why it matters: These technologies can be game-changers in enhancing energy generation and reducing energy consumption in homes, transportation and industry. But with regulatory compliance issues, complex supply chains, and high upfront costs, entrepreneurs with these highly technical start-ups can require a longer funding runway to achieve profitability.
Catch up quick: This year, CMU’s Wilton E. Scott Institute for Energy Innovation will award up to $100,000 to accelerate CMU founder ideas into startups in the energy and climate tech space. This support helps advance the Scott Institute vision of encouraging the development of breakthrough technologies to speed the transition to a sustainable future. Learn more about the inaugural winners of Scott Institute entrepreneurship funding award here.
Over the years, many CMU-founded start-ups have been in the energy sector, including:

CorePower Magnetics: A manufacturer of high-performance inductors, transformers, and motors using proprietary magnetic materials.
Pearl Street Technologies: Created the platform SUGAR, leading tool for the analysis and optimization of power systems to help transmission providers, project developers, and other stakeholders to overcome the interconnection bottleneck.
Peoples Energy Analytics: Identifies and reaches at-risk customers before they default on their energy bills. By using Energy Limiting Behavior™ metrics, the company accurately determines who is at risk of default and connects them with assistance programs years before they ever miss a payment.
SeaLion Energy: Provides performance advancements to lithium-ion batteries (LIB) to enhance conductivity, reduce resistance buildup during cycling, and offer elasticity to minimize mechanical degradation.

What we’re doing: Annually the Scott Institute hosts the Cleantech + Energy Investor Forum &amp; Pitch Showcase at CMU Energy Week to connect founders with funders.

This day-long event includes a panel featuring a discussion between climate tech investors on the greatest challenges and opportunities facing innovation within energy and climate tech.
The Pitch Showcase includes up to 20 energy and climate tech startups from the PA, OH, WV and MD region. More than half of the startups featured are from the CMU energy and climate tech startup community.

What’s next: CMU is partnering with University of Pittsburgh and West Virginia University to form the Resilient Energy Technology and Infrastructure (RETI) Consortium, which was created to innovate and implement critical technologies for industrial grid resilience and energy efficiency. RETI is invigorating the innovation ecosystem in Western Pennsylvania and West Virginia.
The bottom line: Carnegie Mellon continues to spin out energy and climate tech startups, but the U.S. needs to integrate programs that support start-ups into all of our major energy initiatives to ensure that we are seizing the opportunities for innovation. With support from the Scott Institute, the future of energy innovation and entrepreneurship at CMU will remain strong and support the transition to a net-zero emissions future.
Go deeper: Read more to learn about the many startups featured at past CMU Energy Week conferences here. Learn more about CMU energy and climate tech startups here.

jasujazumdinski