Skip to main content
Voting Trustees
The business, property and affairs of the Corporation are managed by or under the direction of a Board of Trustees of the Corporation.
The Board of Trustees shall consist of a minimum of 40 voting members, including ex-officio members, with the number of voting trustees to be determined from time to time by the trustees. Voting trustees members are divided into five classes; one class of trustees is elected each year at the annual meeting to succeed those whose terms expire in that year and to serve for a term of five years.
The term of each trustee typically commences on July 1 following his or her election. A trustee’s term expires on June 30 in the year in which his or her term is concluded, or June 30 following his or her 75th birthday, whichever occurs first. Upon the recommendation of the Nominating and Governance Committee, the Board of Trustees may grant the status of Emeritus/a Trustee to those members who have made distinguished contributions to the University and who have attained at least age 60 or a maximum of age 75.
2025-26 Voting Trustees
Joel Adams*, general partner, Adams Capital Management, Inc.
Lane M. Bess*, principal and founder, Bess Ventures and Advisory; chief executive officer, Deep Instinct
Ronald Bianchini, Jr.*
Keith Block*, founder &amp; chief executive officer, Smith Point Capital
Frank Brunckhorst*, Boar's Head Provisions Co., Inc.
Gloria Chen*, chief people officer and executive vice president of employee experience, Adobe Inc.
David Coulter*, special limited partner, Warburg Pincus LLC
Nathalie Cowan, founder, Abergel Homes
Russell Crockett*, founder, Aeon Blue Technologies; founder, RTC Energy LLC
Jeanne Cunicelli*, president, UPMC Enterprises; executive vice president, UPMC
Ted Decker*, chair, president and chief executive officer, The Home Depot
Shrinivas V. Dempo*, chairman, Dempo Group of Companies
Francisco D'Souza*, co-founder and managing partner, Recognize
Howard Ellin*, partner, Skadden Arps Slate Meagher and Flom
Charlie Evans*, retired president and chief executive officer, Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago
Edward H. Frank*, executive chair, Gradient Technologies
Yoshiaki Fujimori*, chairman of the board, Oracle Japan Corporation
Ed Gainey (ex officio), mayor, City of Pittsburgh
Eric Giler*, founder and co-chief executive officer, OmniZare Imaging, Inc.
Ajei Gopal, president and chief executive officer, ANSYS, Inc.
Edward Grefenstette*, president and chief investment officer, The Dietrich Foundation
Thomas Healy*, founder and chief executive officer, Hyliion
Farnam Jahanian (ex officio), president, Carnegie Mellon University
Larry Jennings, Jr* senior managing director, ValStone Partners, LLC
Katherine Kohatsu * (ex officio), president, Andrew Carnegie Society Board
Daniel Lavelle (ex officio), president, Pittsburgh City Council
Joanna Lovering * (ex officio), president, Carnegie Mellon Alumni Association Board
J. Michael McQuade,director of the program on emerging technology, scientific advancement, and global policy, The Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs
Anne M. Molloy, executive director, Posner Fine Arts Foundation
Brian Olsavsky *, senior vice president and chief financial officer, Amazon.com
Shalini Ray*, managing leader, Guidehouse
KristieAnne Reed*, chief executive officer, Jerry Bruckheimer Television
Sam Reiman, director, Richard King Mellon Foundation
Jewell Parker Rhodes*, founding artistic director of the Virginia G. Piper Center for Creative Writing and Narrative Studies Professor, Arizona State University
Manoj Singh*, retired chief operating officer, Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Limited
Luke Skurman*, chief executive officer, Niche
Lip-Bu Tan, chairman, Walden International
Lowell Taylor, (ex officio), chair, Faculty Senate
David Tepper*, president and founder, Appaloosa Management LP
Thomas Tull, co-chairman, TWG Global
Tamara Tunie*, actor, director and producer
\* Alumnus/a
Please note that the above list is for informational purposes only. Mailings to members of the Board of Trustees will not be forwarded nor will members' personal contact information be disclosed.

jasujazumdinski