Skip to main content

Campus Life
A Place to Grow, Explore and Excel
Experience Carnegie Mellon University's dynamic campus life, where you can flourish intellectually and personally. We emphasize rigorous academics coupled with a wealth of extracurricular activities, allowing you to grow as a leader, forge friendships and serve the local community. Discover CMU's robust resources and support services that assist you in your academic pursuits.

Be a Part of Carnegie Mellon Student Life
Engage with our energetic environment, where you can explore your passions and create lifelong memories. Join one of our 400+ student-run organizations, which range from professional clubs and intramural sports to cultural groups, publications, fraternities and sororities.
Explore Student Activities
Housing &amp; Dining
Find a supportive home away from home through CMU’s residential options tailored for student living and community building.
Housing
From traditional dorms to apartments, explore comfortable living spaces that foster socializing, studying and growth. We guarantee housing for all first-year students.
Dining Services
Fuel your success with diverse, high-quality dining that meets your lifestyle and dietary needs. Learn about our meal plans and sustainability goals.
CMU Campus Life Resources
Thrive at CMU with our comprehensive resources that support you, your career development and your sense of belonging.
Health &amp; Well-Being
Prioritize your whole health through wellness services spanning medical care, counseling, fitness, nutrition, spiritual life and more. Find supportive communities and tools that keep you strong mentally and physically.
Career &amp; Professional Development Center
Tap into the CPDC’s personalized career services and professional expertise. Get one-on-one advising, attend networking events and on-campus recruiting fairs, and more.
Diversity &amp; Inclusion
The Center for Student Diversity &amp; Inclusion plays a vital role in creating a welcoming climate that seeks and empowers diverse perspectives. See how we take steps to foster an environment where all students can thrive.

jasujazumdinski
Experience Life in Pittsburgh
Ranked in the top 15 for “ 2024 Best Cities for Young Professionals,” Pittsburgh offers the perfect urban backdrop for your CMU experience. As a tech and cultural hub, the city hosts world-class museums, incredible dining and vast internship and career opportunities for you to explore.
Living in Pittsburgh

Next Steps
Join the vibrant and supportive community at Carnegie Mellon University that fosters academic excellence and lifelong connections. Visit our campus or take the first step in the admission process.
Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission

jasujazumdinski