Skip to main content
jasujazumdinski
President in the News - 2022
CMU President Farnam Jahanian named to Shapiro-Davis transition leadership group
November 22, 2022
Pennsylvania Governor-elect Josh Shapiro and Lieutenant Governor-elect Austin Davis announced a pair of key leadership groups to advise them during their adminstration's transition, including Carnegie Mellon Universty President Farnam Jahanian as a member of the Transition Personnel Committee.
PoliticsPA
CMU President Farnam Jahanian on why Pittsburgh's got a key position in clean energy future
September 26, 2022
Carnegie Mellon Universty President Farnam Jahanian is convinced that the Pittsburgh region has the right skills and positioning for leadership on the clean energy transition, the focus of last week's Global Clean Energy Action Forum that drew thousands of energy and sustainability experts across across the world. "This region has reinvented itself as the center of a new economy and a model of the power of innovation," Jahanian said.
Pittsburgh Post-Gazette
Op-ed: The world is coming to innovation powerhouse Pittsburgh
September 22, 2022
Pittsburgh, Secretary of Energy Jennifer Granholm recently said, is “a town that exemplifies how a legacy energy and industrial-dependent economy can be transformed into a technology and innovation powerhouse.” This week, our city and region is hosting the first-ever Global Clean Energy Action Forum in partnership with the Department of Energy.
Pittsburgh Post-Gazette
Carnegie Mellon University enters $275M partnership with Mastercard Foundation
September 8, 2022
Carnegie Mellon University has announced its latest investment. The Pittsburgh university is working with the Mastercard Foundation, the philanthropic organization born out of the company Mastercard Inc., to invest in CMU’s campus in Kigali, Rwanda in Africa. It's the latest development in a longstanding partnership between the two entities. “The key to creating opportunities for promising African students from all socioeconomic backgrounds is access to education in the high-tech fields that are driving the economies of the future,” Farnam Jahanian, president of Carnegie Mellon University.
Pittsburgh Business Times
Pittsburgh region granted $62.7 million in federal funds to create a robotics cluster
September 2, 2022
The Pittsburgh region is betting big on robotics, and that's being recognized by a $62.7 million federal grant. It’s one of 21 regions to receive funding from the $1 billion Build Back Better Regional Challenge awarded by the U.S. Economic Development Administration. Administered by the Southwestern Pennsylvania New Economy Collaborative, the Build Back Better grant will fund five major projects, which are intended to work together to grow the robotics industry in the 11-county region. “Southwestern Pennsylvania winning this significant Build Back Better Regional Challenge grant is a testament to the sheer power of collaboration that’s been so integral to the transformation of our regional economy,” said Farnam Jahanian.
Next Pittsburgh
Gov. Tom Wolf, CMU President Farnam Jahanian among Pennsylvanians at Biden’s signing of ‘CHIPS and Science’ bill
August 9, 2022
Prominent Pennsylvanians attended President Joe Biden’s signing of the CHIPS and Science Act, a new law that directs billions to spur domestic semiconductor manufacturing and could potentially unlock billions more for scientific research. Gov. Tom Wolf and Carnegie Mellon University President Farnam Jahanian were among a large audience on the White House South Lawn as Mr. Biden signed the bipartisan bill into law. “It is a privilege to represent Carnegie Mellon University at the White House as President Biden signs the CHIPs and Science Act. This historic piece of legislation — the result of extraordinary bipartisan cooperation in the House and Senate over several years representing all corners of the nation — will shape the next frontier of science and technology and catalyze long-term economic growth,” Mr. Jahanian said.
Pittsburgh Post-Gazette
Pittsburgh Public Schools board of directors approves new permanent superintendent, local leaders react
July 29, 2022
In a unanimous vote, the Pittsburgh Public Schools board of directors approved Wayne N. Walters to serve as the district’s new permanent superintendent. "The Carnegie Mellon community joins Pittsburgh in congratulating Wayne Walters on his appointment as the new superintendent of Pittsburgh Public Schools," Carnegie Mellon University President Farnam Jahanian said.
Pittsburgh Business Times
Pittsburgh-area universities, companies eyeing semiconductor bill that could bring billions for research and development
July 26, 2022
The U.S. Senate moved forward on the “Chips and Science” bill that will funnel about $52 billion to makers of the chips that serve as foundational components of computers and electronics, including those in cars, appliances, hospital equipment, cell phones, defense systems and a number of other modern technological devices. Farnam Jahanian, President of Carnegie Mellon University, ground zero for many of the city’s spin-off tech companies, sees the legislation as supporting “the Pittsburgh model of success —harnessing the power of research and innovation to drive economic development, create jobs, and spur regional revitalization for the benefit of all.”
Pittsburgh Post-Gazette
Army Futures Command hosts Pittsburgh Technology Terrain Walk for Army leaders
June 30, 2022
Industry, academia and military came together last week for Army Modernization Enterprise officials to explore current and emerging technologies and use findings to better inform requirements documents. The Technology Terrain Walk helped familiarize officials with tech in Pittsburgh, home to the Army Artificial Intelligence Integration Center. The participants heard remarks from Farnam Jahanian, President of CMU, who emphasized the importance of collaboration and the positive outcomes of the DoD and CMU relationship over the past century, highlighting the recent success of CMU’s partnership with Artificial Intelligence Integration Center on their AI Scholars, AI Technician and Data-Driven Leadership courses.
U.S. Army News
Local organizations and business leaders voice support to Pitt's fight for funding
June 14, 2022
As the deadline for the Pennsylvania state government to vote on its appropriated funding bill approaches, the University of Pittsburgh is ramping up its advocacy campaign to secure funding as a state-related university. Many local companies and groups are throwing their support behind the university. “Because of the strong partnership between Pitt and CMU, Pittsburgh has become one of the leading innovation ecosystems in the country,” said Carnegie Mellon President Farnam Jahanian. “Many more people [in Pennsylvania] will have the opportunity to participate in our economic future as a result of our collaborative efforts.”
Pittsburgh Business Times
Carnegie Mellon offers inflation relief to employees
June 8, 2022
Carnegie Mellon University announced that it is offering eligible employees a one-time $1,500 payment to help combat rising inflation. It is also implementing a merit increase program for fiscal year 2023, in which employees will be awarded pay raises based on their performance evaluations. “The work of our outstanding staff and faculty continues to strengthen our research and academic missions, support our students, and enhance our reputation and impact,” said President Farnam Jahanian. “On behalf of the university’s academic and administrative leadership, thank you for all that you contribute to our mission and to our community.”
Inside Higher Ed
Carnegie Mellon welcomes four new members to its Board of Trustees
May 23, 2022
Carnegie Mellon University's board of trustees announced the election of Ajei Gopal, president and CEO of Canonsburg-based Ansys Inc., to serve as its newest member. The board also welcomed three ex-officio members during its May 2022 meeting; Ed Gainey, City of Pittsburgh mayor; Brit McCandless Farmer, CMU alumna and president-elect of CMU's alumni association board; and John Watts, CMU alumnus and incoming president of CMU's Andrew Carnegie Society. President Farnam Jahanian said of the new board members, “I look forward to relying on their counsel to help the university advance our mission in education, research and societal impact.”
Pittsburgh Business Times
Carnegie Mellon expects its biggest commencement as three classes are honored
May 11, 2022
Upward of 25,000 students, alumni, family and others are expected at Carnegie Mellon University on Friday through Sunday as the institution celebrates its 124th commencement and its largest — honoring not only the Class of 2022 but also graduates from 2020 and 2021. Two of the weekend's keynote speakers are returning to their hometowns — Nobel Prize-winning chemist Frances Arnold and Emmy, Grammy and Tony Award winner Billy Porter. Carnegie Mellon President Farnam Jahanian noted the historic scale of this year’s event, saying it is matched by the community’s anticipation “to return to this cherished tradition in person” for students and families whose educational pursuits were upended by the deadly pandemic.
Pittsburgh Post-Gazette
TCS Pace Port Pittsburgh co-innovation and advanced research center launches at CMU
April 22, 2022
Tata Consultancy Services (TCS), an information technology services and consulting company based in Mumbai, India, has launched TCS Pace Port Pittsburgh, a brand new co-innovation and advanced research center on Carnegie Mellon University’s campus that's designed to utilize the latest advances in technology and collaborations between local startups, entrepreneurs students and educators to help companies innovate faster. “Collaboration between universities and industry is key to addressing the pressing global challenges that face our society. This is the latest chapter of our ongoing partnership [with TCS] to drive innovation and entrepreneurship at the leading edge of technology, science and society,” CMU President Farnam Jahanian said.
Pittsburgh Business Times
CMU earns gold rating for commitment to green practices, sustainability
March 8, 2022
Carnegie Mellon was awarded its second consecutive gold ranking by the Association for the Advancement of Sustainability in Higher Education (AASHE) as measured through AASHE's Sustainability Tracking, Assessment and Rating System (STARS), which is a self-reporting structure for colleges and universities to measure their environmental efforts. “Our university’s participation in STARS is a great example of our community’s shared responsibility and accountability in creating a more sustainable planet, and strengthens the campus-wide partnerships necessary to maintain sustainability-focused programs,” said President Farnam Jahanian.
The Piper
President Jahanian joins Duke University panel to discuss the evolving role of American universities in the innovation economy
March 2, 2022
President Farnam Jahanian participated in a virtual panel discussion hosted by the Center for Innovation Policy at Duke Law with leaders from top U.S. research universities. Jahanian spoke about the importance of U.S. research universities to American prosperity, competitiveness, national security and economic development and how increasing federal investment in R&amp;D at universities is necessary to improving the nation’s position as a leader of innovation, technology and talent.
The Piper
Record $10 million gift will establish Joseph Ballay Center for Design Fusion at CMU
February 28, 2022
Carnegie Mellon’s prestigious College of Fine Arts received the largest gift in its history, $10 million, to establish the Joseph Ballay Center for Design Fusion in the School of Design. CMU Emeritus Professor of Design and alumnus Joseph Ballay and his wife, Sue, are donating the funds. This center "reinforces CMU’s culture, in which the creative and the technical live side-by-side, strengthening each other,” said Carnegie Mellon President Farnam Jahanian.
NEXTpittsburgh
Farnam Jahanian and Rich Fitzgerald: Autonomous vehicle testing bill essential to regional economy
January 26, 2022
Carnegie Mellon University President Farnam Jahanian said in a joint op-ed with Allegheny County Executive Rich Fitzgerald that passage of Pennsylvania SB 965, which ensures the continued safe development of autonomous vehicle technology in the state, would help the Pittsburgh region capture the potential of the self-driving vehicle industry that is poised to grow to a $1 trillion market size within this decade.
Pittsburgh Post-Gazette
CMU hosts bipartisan event to unveil new autonomous vehicle legislation in Pennsylvania
January 5, 2022
Carnegie Mellon University President Farnam Jahanian said it’s important to change state law to allow companies to test self-driving cars and trucks on Pennsylvania roads. If the bipartisan bill is approved, Jahanian said, it could allow the state to become “a hub for the transformative technology of the future.” That could include not only testing technology developed in Pittsburgh and Pennsylvania, but also manufacturing the components the emerging industry would need.
Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

jasujazumdinski