Centers & Institutes
Research That Changes the World
Driven to solve modern-day problems, Carnegie Mellon University pushes the limits of what’s possible through its extensive research efforts. The university supports more than 100 centers and institutes, where faculty from diverse disciplines converge to unlock groundbreaking solutions.
From artificial intelligence to entrepreneurship, our collaborative culture fosters an environment where bold and visionary ideas thrive. CMU students play an active role in this vibrant ecosystem, working alongside faculty at the forefront of their respective fields in state-of-the-art labs. With advanced facilities and an emphasis on interdisciplinary ideas, Carnegie Mellon strives to create knowledge that genuinely changes the world.
Studying the Connection Between Humans and Computers
The Human-Computer Interaction Institute connects thought leaders across computer science, design and behavioral and social sciences to develop human-centered software, services and systems.
Explore the Human-Computer Interaction Institute
Carnegie Mellon University has more than 100 research centers and institutes, addressing a broad range of interests and industries.
The links below showcase some of the centers where Carnegie Mellon students and faculty are working to solve real-world problems.
Arts and Humanities
Explore the research centers and projects at the front lines of the arts and humanities at Carnegie Mellon, from advancing human rights using science and technology to integrating environmental sustainability in buildings.
College of Fine Arts Research & Creative Practices
Dietrich College of Humanities and Social Sciences Research Institutes & Centers
Entertainment Technology Center
School of Architecture Research & Practice
jasujazumdinski
Business and Policy
Learn about CMU’s centers and institutes dedicated to business innovation, information systems, political strategy and the governance of emerging technologies that impact policies.
Block Center for Technology and Society
Carnegie Mellon Institute for Strategy & Technology
Heinz College of Information Systems and Public Policy Research Centers
Swartz Center for Entrepreneurship
Tepper School of Business Research and Education Centers
Education and Communication
The following CMU centers provide services and resources to help graduate students and faculty become better educators. We also work with the CMU community to enhance educational opportunities for local youth, especially in STEM fields.
Eberly Center for Teaching Excellence
Intercultural Communications Center (ICC)
Leonard Gelfand Center for Service Learning and Outreach
Science and Technology
Browse CMU research centers in scientific frontiers from cybersecurity and sustainability to neuroscience and robotics. Our advanced CMU labs perform pioneering experiments to drive new discoveries that shape the future.
AI Institute for Societal Decision Making
College of Engineering Research Institutes, Centers and Initiatives
CyLab Security and Privacy Institute
Dietrich College of Humanities and Social Sciences
Hunt Institute for Botanical Documentation
Integrated Innovation Institute
Manufacturing Futures Institute
Mellon College of Science Research
Neuroscience Institute
Robotics Institute
School of Computer Science Research and Additional Centers
Software Engineering Institute
Steinbrenner Institute for Environmental Education and Research
Wilton E. Scott Institute for Energy Innovation
jasujazumdinski