Announcing CMU's Next VP of University Communications and Marketing
May 16, 2024
Dear Faculty and Staff,
Following a comprehensive national search, I am pleased to announce the appointment of Tysen Kendig as Carnegie Mellon University’s next vice president for university communications and marketing. Tysen’s first day in this new role is scheduled for July 8, 2024.
Tysen will be coming to us from the University of Connecticut, where he has served for over a decade as the institution’s vice president for communications and marketing and directs all aspects of the university’s central communication efforts. In addition to his responsibilities as chief steward of UConn’s brand, Tysen has shaped and spearheaded a range of initiatives aimed at sharpening the university’s storytelling and reputation.
Over the course of his career, Tysen has spent more than 26 years in senior administration and spokesperson roles at major public and private universities. He has directed communications, marketing and branding for academic, research, health care, advancement and athletics programs, including during his earlier career stops at the University of Iowa, the University of Arkansas and Penn State University. He is a graduate of Penn State.
I am confident that Tysen will arrive in Pittsburgh ready to hit the ground sprinting and succeed in elevating the achievements and impact of our extraordinary communications and marketing team. He has a strong background in areas of critical importance to our university, a wealth of experience working in and for highly complex organizations, and a record of quickly and effectively cultivating trusted partnerships with colleagues and stakeholders. His deep expertise in all things communications — paired with an ability to convene, collaborate, pivot and enact a strategic vision — will benefit not just his immediate team but all of our university’s schools, colleges and campuses.
I appreciate the many university stakeholders who helped inform our search efforts and who interviewed and evaluated our final candidates, and I remain especially grateful to the members of our dedicated search advisory committee — co-chaired by Chief of Staff Tricia O’Reilly and Vice President for University Advancement Scott Mory — who helped realize this terrific conclusion.
Once Tysen arrives on campus in July, I hope that you all will join me in warmly welcoming him into our Tartan community and supporting both his success and the efforts of our University Communications and Marketing team under his leadership.
Warm Regards,
Farnam
Farnam Jahanian
President
Henry L. Hillman President’s Chair
jasujazumdinski