President in the News
Farnam Jahanian: On Education With and For AI
September 18, 2025
Dr. Farnam Jahanian, President of Carnegie Mellon University (CMU), joins Arm CEO and host Rene Haas to discuss the future of innovation and education in an AI world.
Tech Unheard
Farnam Jahanian: The AI summit: Very good for Western Pennsylvania (Opinion)
July 14, 2025
This week, leaders from government, industry, and academia are gathering in Pittsburgh to confront a pressing question: How can the United States sustain its edge in artificial intelligence, energy, and advanced technology?
Pittsburgh Post-Gazette
Carnegie Mellon University, Qatar Foundation extend partnership
May 15, 2025
Farnam Jahanian said: “The extraordinary partnership between Qatar Foundation and Carnegie Mellon University has flourished over the last 20 years. It is a partnership rooted in mutual trust and a shared commitment to leverage education as a platform for global engagement and a driver of economic opportunity and a better future for all.
The Peninsula
As the caps are tossed, CMU grads cheer and get advice on heading into a challenging world
May 11, 2025
CMU President Farnam Jahanian urged students to be relentless in their pursuit of knowledge, not to be afraid to expand their horizons and embrace adventure, and to make the world their classroom, canvas, laboratory and stage.
Pittsburgh Post-Gazette
Carnegie Mellon president joins university leaders in condemning 'unprecedented government overreach'
April 22, 2025
Presidents of nearly 200 U.S. colleges and universities, including a dozen in Pennsylvania, have co-signed a letter condemning what they called “unprecedented government overreach and political interference” by the federal government. Carnegie Mellon University President Farnam Jahanian was the lone co-signer from a Southwestern Pennsylvania institution.
Trib Total Media
Carnegie Mellon University joins federal lawsuit over cuts to life-saving research
February 11, 2025
"This abrupt policy change would drastically undercut the ability of CMU and other leading research institutions to deliver on our mission and, in the process, would undermine the innovation ecosystem that powers U.S. competitiveness and enhances our societal well-being," said CMU President Farnam Jahanian in a letter sent to the university community.
CBS News
jasujazumdinski