jasujazumdinski
President in the News - 2018
White House to hold roundtable with tech executives
November 29, 2018
Farnam Jahanian will join executives from top tech companies in a round table discussion with the Trump administration to discuss "bold, transformational ideas” that “can help ensure U.S. leadership in industries of the future.”
Wall Street Journal
Carnegie Mellon names engineering dean as its new provost
November 16, 2018
Carnegie Mellon University Friday named as its new provost the school’s engineering dean and a three-time graduate of CMU after a six-month search that went global but ended close to home. James Garrett, Jr.’s appointment as chief academic officer is effective Jan. 1.
Pittsburgh Post-Gazette
Software Engineering Institute names leading cybersecurity researcher as CTO
November 2, 2018
The Software Engineering Institute at Carnegie Mellon University announced the appointment of nationally known cybersecurity researcher Dr. Tom Longstaff as chief technology officer (CTO). “Tom Longstaff brings significant experience in managing research programs in support of the U.S. government, and we are pleased to entrust him with the leadership of the SEI’s research and development initiatives,” said CMU President Farnam Jahanian.
AIthority
Researcher Joyce Fienberg remembered at CMU vigil
October 29, 2018
Hundreds of people gathered Monday night at Carnegie Mellon University to honor those killed in Saturday’s attack on Tree of Life synagogue. CMU president Farnam Jahanian told the crowd that the communities of CMU and Pittsburgh were both united in heartbreak. “I want to take a moment to address our Jewish students, colleagues and neighbors,” he said. “We love you, we support you, we surround you and we protect you.”
NPR Pittsburgh
Carnegie Mellon receives two gifts totaling $80M as Jahanian is inaugurated: Major gifts announced as Farnam Jahanian inaugurated as 10th university president
October 26, 2018
Carnegie Mellon University is receiving two major gifts totaling $80 million -- one for scholarships and student academic support, and the other toward a new and enlarged engineering hall on campus, CMU president Farnam Jahanian said Friday.
Pittsburgh Post-Gazette
Following CMU professors' resignations, president creates task force to oversee campus culture
August 22, 2018
In the wake of two high-profile professors resigning from Carnegie Mellon University and alleging harassment and sexism the workplace as a factor, CMU President Farnam Jahanian is creating a new task force to oversee campus culture and respond to incidents that fall outside the school’s standards.
Pittsburgh Post-Gazette
Vocational training, community colleges have a role in prepping the future workforce, says CMU president
August 21, 2018
Carnegie Mellon University’s latest freshmen class has begun settling into the school’s Oakland campus, selected from the largest pool of applicants yet. Normally, CMU sees a 3 or 4 percent increase in applications each year. This year, there was a 19 percent spike.
Pittsburgh Post-Gazette
CMU names VP of research
August 15, 2018
Carnegie Mellon University has hired a former United Technologies Corp. executive for the newly created post of vice president for research. Michael McQuade will join CMU in January and will report directly to President Farnam Jahanian.
Pittsburgh Business Times
We've had to prepare for jobs that don't exist yet before
July 12, 2018
Think about explaining to someone 25 years ago what a social media manager, ride share service employee, or drone operator does for a living. Technology combined with population demands, resource scarcity, urbanization, and other factors have created an array of new jobs and radically changed others.
Fast Company
Carnegie Mellon alumna Jamie deRoy wins three Tony Awards
June 11, 2018
Carnegie Mellon University and its School of Drama had many reasons to celebrate at the 2018 Tony Awards, including three awards alumna Jamie deRoy took home as producer.
Business Insider
The drama teacher who inspired Parkland students will be honored with a Tony Award
June 1, 2018
Drama teacher Melody Herzfeld and 65 of her students hid for two hours in her office when a mass shooter went on a rampage at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Florida. Herzfeld is now set to be honored with a Tony Award for excellence in theater education from the Tonys and Carnegie Mellon University. The award will be presented later this month during the 72nd annual Tony Awards ceremony at Radio City Music Hall in New York.
CNN
Carnegie Mellon's School of Art to open new facility for its MFA program
April 26, 2018
The university has been working on converting the entire top floor of the Graduate School of Industrial Administration building into a flexible space for its Masters of Fine Art program. Once it is completed in the fall of 2019, the facility will include eighteen individual studios, study and public gathering areas, and administration offices.
ArtForum
CMU inks deal to help create 'smartest airport on the planet
April 19, 2018
Carnegie Mellon University is partnering on a bid to make Pittsburgh International Airport “the smartest airport on the planet.” The ultimate goal is to use sensors, apps and other smart technology to help travelers navigate their way through the airport with unprecedented ease — from finding a space in the parking lot to perhaps even getting an exact time to arrive at the security checkpoint.
Pittsburgh Post-Gazette
Carnegie Mellon University names Farnam Jahanian as its new president
March 8, 2018
Carnegie Mellon University's former provost and its interim leader since July is now the school's 10th president after campus trustees voted unanimously following an eight-month search to make his appointment permanent, officials announced Thursday. Farnam Jahanian, a nationally prominent computer scientist, entrepreneur and administrator, came to Carnegie Mellon in 2014 and served as vice president for research and later as provost.
Pittsburgh Post-Gazette
$15M donation establishes CMU's Block Center for Technology and Society
February 26, 2018
A Carnegie Mellon University alum and his wife donated $15 million to the school to start a research center focused on examining the impact technology has on society. The gift from Keith Block, president and chief operating officer of Salesforce, and Suzanne Kelley, a vice president at Oracle, will establish the Block Center for Technology and Society, CMU announced.
Pittsburgh Tribune-Review
CMU econ professor awaits confirmation to the Fed
January 25, 2018
Pittsburgh macroeconomist Marvin Goodfriend is awaiting official Senate confirmation to help lead the Federal Reserve Board of Governors. Members oversee the nation's 12 Federal Banks, set regulations and control the interest rates that private banks and consumers pay to borrow money.
Pittsburgh NPR News
4 ways universities are driving innovation
January 17, 2018
As part of the World Economic Forum, Dr. Farnam Jahanian's blog reflects on the vital roles of universities in preparing society for the advances in automation, the digitization of information, unprecedented access to data and the democratization of knowledge.
World Economic Forum
ARM Institute board appoints CEO
January 10, 2018
The Advanced Robotics for Manufacturing Institute board named Byron C. Clayton as CEO on Tuesday, Jan. 9. The ARM Institute, founded at Carnegie Mellon University in January 2017, is an independent non-profit aiming to be a leading catalyst of robotics and to help grow U.S.-based manufacturing. It operates as part of the Manufacturing USA network.
Pittsburgh Business Times
jasujazumdinski