Skip to main content
Undergraduate Tuition and Fees for Academic Year 2025-26
February 3, 2025
Dear Members of the Carnegie Mellon Community:
Each year, the university reviews its costs and sets tuition, fees and living expenses for the upcoming academic year. This analysis considers expenditures and inflation, aiming to balance the university's financial stability with the ability to attract top-tier students.
For the academic year 2025-26 (AY25-26), the Board of Trustees approved an overall 3.86% increase in the undergraduate cost of attendance. Undergraduate tuition will be $67,020, with a rate of $11,250 for a standard double room and $7,644 for a traditional first-year meal plan. Approved rates for other associated fees can be found on the Student Financial Services website . Please note that graduate tuition is set by individual schools and colleges at the program level and will be published later in the semester.
We recognize the financial investment that students and their families make by choosing to attend CMU. As an institution, we are fully committed to delivering an exceptional educational experience while making it as affordable as possible. The university continues to make investments in financial aid commensurate with increases in cost of attendance and to meet full demonstrated need for undergraduate students receiving financial aid, nearly doubling the amount of financial aid provided over the past decade. One result of these investments is the CMU Pathway Program, which will officially launch at the start of AY25-26. This program is part of our recent initiatives to ensure talented students can afford a CMU education, regardless of their socioeconomic background, and is available to undergraduate students who:

have typical family assets and an annual family income that falls below the income thresholds for a tuition-free ($75,000) and federal loan-free ($100,000) CMU education;
are a new or returning undergraduate enrolled at our Pittsburgh campus; and
are a U.S. citizen or a permanent resident of the United States.

You can learn more about CMU’s suite of access and affordability initiatives, as well as updated information on the cost of attendance, on the Student Financial Services website.
Sincerely,
James H. Garrett Jr.
Provost and Chief Academic Officer

jasujazumdinski