Learning for a Lifetime
Committed to improving the educational experiences in the Pittsburgh region and beyond, Carnegie Mellon University provides learning opportunities long before and after college.
Many of CMU’s colleges offer K–12 programs with a focus on a particular discipline, like the School of Music's Preparatory School. In these ways and so many more, Carnegie Mellon helps children prepare today for what's to come tomorrow.
For many years beyond, The Osher Lifelong Learning Institute (OLLI) gives Pittsburgh adults a chance to continue their learning in non-credit, peer-led classes.
3 Months to Kindergarten
Children of university faculty, staff and students are eligible to enroll in The Cyert Center for Education's full-day early care program.
Cyert Center for Early Education
Pre-Kindergarten and Kindergarten
Carnegie Mellon also provides preschool and kindergarten education based on theories and research in developmental psychology, as well as years of successful experience, at The Children's School.
The Children's School
K-12 Students, Parents and Educators
Carnegie Mellon offers over 80 programs for K-12 youth, educators, and students. Numerous activities are held during the summer or on evenings and weekends during the academic year. For more information about K–12 programs, visit the Gelfand Center for Service Learning and Outreach.
K-12 Student Programs
jasujazumdinski
Summer Pre-College Program
CMU's Summer Pre-College Program is a six-week experience where high school students discover what it's like to live and learn on campus as a college student.
Summer Pre-College Program
Adults Aged 50+
Osher Lifelong Learning Institute (OLLI), formerly the Academy for Lifelong Learning, welcomes adults in the Pittsburgh area to learn more about the program.
Endowed by the Bernard Osher Foundation, OLLI at CMU is a non-credit program supported by Carnegie Mellon University since its charter in 1992.
Members participate in courses selected by the curriculum committee with suggestions from the membership.
Dedicated volunteers lead courses and manage the program. Most classes are held during daylight hours.
Osher Lifelong Learning Institute
jasujazumdinski