Welcoming the Spring Semester
January 13, 2025
Dear Members of the Carnegie Mellon University Community:
It is my pleasure to officially welcome you to the spring semester. I hope you enjoyed a refreshing Winter Break — taking time to rest, connect with loved ones, and step away from the usual campus rhythms. As we begin this new semester, I am writing to share some key updates and highlight the exciting opportunities ahead of us.
2025-2026 Academic Calendar
The official 2025-2026 Academic Calendar is now available on The HUB website, as well as the proposed calendars for the following two academic years. The summer 2025 internship calendar also has been finalized. Consistent with previous years, the academic calendar features a weeklong Fall Break and an early scheduling of Spring Carnival to avoid conflicts with religious holidays.
I strongly encourage everyone to review the Inclusive Holiday Observations and Interfaith Calendar, which lists dates for course instructors to consider when planning mandatory activities and assignments; students are encouraged to talk to their course instructors early in the semester to share dates on which they are requesting flexibility.
Opportunities to Learn, Gather and Grow
This year, we are excited to continue offering community-wide programs designed to foster understanding and awareness of complex issues, while also encouraging meaningful dialogue on significant societal topics. In this spirit, I invite you to participate in the President’s Lecture Series, Deeper Conversations, Combating Hate Series and University Lecture Series, all of which present unique and engaging opportunities for our community. Additionally, CMU’s 2025 Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. Day Keynote Lecture featuring Admiral Michelle J. Howard will be held on February 5, 2025. I look forward to seeing you at these and other community events throughout the semester.
I also invite you to attend my open office hours, which are an opportunity for you to share your insights, challenges and goals for our community. As we begin this new year, I want to hear your perspective on helping shape CMU into an environment where every member can thrive.
jasujazumdinski
Office of International Education (OIE) Resources
Although the effects of the incoming U.S. presidential administration on immigration matters are uncertain, the Office of International Education (OIE) has been actively reaching out to our international students and scholars to provide essential information about their legal immigration status. OIE is here to support the success and welfare of CMU's international students and scholars. Individuals with questions about their immigration status are encouraged to reach out to OIE at oie@andrew.cmu.edu.
Counseling and Psychological Services (CaPS)
As always, our CaPS team is here to foster a safe, confidential environment for students to discuss personal and academic concerns. All students currently enrolled at the Pittsburgh campus are eligible for services at CaPS at no additional cost to them, and all services are confidential.
Looking Ahead
As we embark on this semester together, I am grateful for this community’s collective commitment to learning, understanding and supporting one another. Each of you plays a crucial role in creating an inclusive and innovative environment. I invite you to join me in approaching this semester with curiosity, empathy and a shared dedication to making a positive impact, both within our university and across the world.
Sincerely,
James H. Garrett Jr.
Provost and Chief Academic Officer
jasujazumdinski