Skip to main content
President in the News - 2024
Leading Universities Introduce A Flurry of Free Tuition Offers
November 22, 2024
In the space of just a few days this week, four highly regarded universities have introduced free tuition programs for undergraduates meeting certain income requirements. Carnegie Mellon University announced the launch of the CMU Pathway Program for the 2025-26 academic year. Under that initiative, students from families earning less than $75,000 annually will be able to attend CMU tuition-free.
Forbes
Nvidia, Shapiro and university leaders sign memorandum highlighting chipmaker's investment in Pittsburgh
October 15, 2024
The company previously announced its planned investment in the city last week at its own summit in Washington, D.C.
The Business Journals
CMU to build AI research center with $6 million from federal agency
October 2, 2024
Carnegie Mellon University will play a key role in establishing standards for artificial intelligence as the Biden administration looks to develop the technology more safely. The National Institute of Standards and Technology, part of the U.S. Department of Commerce, awarded the school $6 million last week to establish a research lab for AI. The funding will “support a new generation of scientists and engineers that will help advance American innovation globally,” Commerce Secretary Gina Raimondo said in a statement.
MSN
Carnegie Mellon Alumni Earn Four 2024 Tony Awards®
June 17, 2024
Broadway raised the curtain at the David H. Koch Theater at Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts in New York to hold The 77th Annual Tony Awards on Sunday, June 16. Throughout the evening, Carnegie Mellon University alumni were among the award show performers, presenters, nominees, winners, and advocates for theater education.
AP News
CMU joins $110 million partnership with Tokyo's Keio University to work on AI
April 9, 2024
The collaboration was announced by the U.S. and Japanese governments as part of a $110M partnership between the universities, governments and private sector.
The Business Journals
Opinion: Pennsylvania gets the critical economic plan we need
January 31, 2024
Penn­syl­va­nia has all the nec­es­sary, tough-to-come-by in­gre­di­ents to shape the fu­ture, to strengthen our econ­omy, and to se­cure our place as the lead­ing eco­nomic en­gine of the fu­ture. But we can­not stum­ble our way to en­sur­ing that our state wins the race to lead the econ­omy of the fu­ture, and en­sur­ing that all Penn­syl­va­nians will ben­e­fit. We’ve been miss­ing one crit­i­cal piece. And to­day we’ve got it.
Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

jasujazumdinski