The Fence Working Group
Read the President's Message
Fence Working Group
Charge to the Working Group
In September 2025, President Jahanian charged a Fence working group to consider how the Fence can continue to serve as a meaningful campus tradition while ensuring clarity, accountability and respect for its roles, and the boundaries of its roles, within our diverse community. The working group will consider the history of the Fence as well as CMU’s commitments to academic freedom and freedom of expression as they take on this important assignment.
The group is charged with considering the following questions as it makes its recommendations:
What are the primary purposes of the Fence? Are the right tools and mechanisms in place to support its goals?
How do, and how should, CMU’s Freedom of Expression Policy and Guidelines apply to the Fence? For example, if the Fence is used to express contested viewpoints, should people with opposing views be assured access to an equivalent forum, and, if so, how might this be accomplished?
How can this working group build on the recommendations of the Commission to ensure alignment with the university’s broader commitments to freedom of expression and academic freedom?
How can we reduce confusion, especially for external audiences, as to whether messages on the Fence reflect CMU’s views as an institution, or are endorsed by communities within CMU?  What is the role and impact of social media on the Fence tradition?
How can the Fence tradition continue to foster student expression and engagement while recognizing that words in certain contexts can cause harm, confusion or hurt in our community?
Are there expectations around attribution, governance and use that can be better communicated, particularly during moments of increased visibility, such as campus celebrations, high-profile events or times of intense public discourse?
In addition, the working group has been asked to conceive and launch forums to solicit input from the campus community — whether through interviews, town halls, roundtables or other forums. These opportunities for dialogue will ensure that a broad cross-section of the CMU community can contribute to shaping the future of this tradition.
jasujazumdinski
Working Group Members
The working group includes students, faculty, staff and alumni who have been nominated by the Student Government, Faculty Senate, Alumni Association Board and Staff Council:
Jon Caulkins, Co-Chair, H. Guyford Stever University Professor of Operations Research and Public Policy, Heinz College
Bobby Klatzky, Co-Chair, Charles J. Queenan, Jr. University Professor of Psychology and Human-Computer Interaction, Dietrich College of Humanities and Social Sciences
Rebekah Adams, Ph.D. Student, Mechanical Engineering
Julius Arolovich, Undergraduate Student, Electrical and Computer Engineering (ECE) and Robotics
Creighton Arrington (DC ‘25), Master’s Student, Languages, Cultures and Applied Linguistics
Francesca Cain, Undergraduate Student, ECE and Biomedical Engineering; President of Undergraduate Student Senate
Alex DiClaudio (DC ’09, HNZ ‘11), Managing Director and EVP, Bedford Management Partners
Brit Farmer (DC '08), Digital Producer at 60 Minutes, CBS
Christina Fong, Senior Research Scientist, Department of Social and Decision Sciences, Dietrich College
Ryan Freytag (CFA ’01), Director of Alumni and Constituent Engagement; Chair of Staff Council
Elizabeth Koch, Director of Student Involvement and Traditions
Joanna D. Lovering (BXA ’04), Founder of Copper + Rise; President of the Alumni Association Board
Wes Pegden, Professor of Mathematics, Mellon College of Science
Aleena Siddiqui, Undergraduate Student, Materials Science and Engineering
Stephen Sudia, Ph.D. Student, English; President of Graduate Student Assembly
Tendai Ushendibaba, Housefellow and Coordinator, Office of Community Standards and Integrity
Laurie Weingart, Richard M. and Margaret S. Cyert Professor of Organizational Behavior and Theory, Tepper School of Business
jasujazumdinski
Working Group Advisors
Mary Jo Dively, Vice President and General Counsel
Gina Casalegno, Vice President for Student Affairs and Dean of Students
jasujazumdinski