Skip to main content

About Carnegie Mellon
Don’t Envision the Future, Invent It Every Day
At Carnegie Mellon University, academic and research excellence isn't just what we strive for — it's the uncompromising standard. Our entrepreneurial spirit means no pursuit is too complex, and no question is too unconventional to explore.
Whether pioneering groundbreaking brain research, creating visionary art that challenges perspectives or developing next-generation technologies like self-driving cars, we go all in on big ideas that move the world forward. See how we transform bold ideas into extraordinary impact that changes everything.
CMU Anthem - Extended - YouTube
Photo image of Carnegie Mellon University
Carnegie Mellon University
162K subscribers
CMU Anthem - Extended
Carnegie Mellon University
Search
Watch later
Share
Copy link
Info
Shopping
Tap to unmute
If playback doesn't begin shortly, try restarting your device.
More videos
More videos
You're signed out
Videos you watch may be added to the TV's watch history and influence TV recommendations. To avoid this, cancel and sign in to YouTube on your computer.
CancelConfirm
Share
Include playlist
An error occurred while retrieving sharing information. Please try again later.
Watch on
0:00
0:00 / 1:09
•Live
•
CMU Stands Apart
#1
Best Undergraduate Software Engineering Program
U.S. News &amp; World Report
jasujazumdinski
#4
Best Graduate Engineering School
U.S. News &amp; World Report
#6
World’s Top Drama School
The Hollywood Reporter
View All Our Rankings &amp; Awards
Who We Are and What We Do
CMU fosters a community of fearless trailblazers united by a shared passion for innovation and excellence. Learn about our strategic partnerships and global presence.
Vision, Mission and Values
Explore CMU’s key initiatives and values, from our strategic plan to diversity. Learn more about our history and what makes us SO CMU.
Leadership
Meet our Board of Trustees, president, senior administration members and deans.
Our Regional Impact
Explore our partnerships with Pittsburgh and the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania to create lasting economic and community change.
CMU Locations
Carnegie Mellon is a university without borders, with campuses in Pittsburgh, Silicon Valley, Qatar and Africa. Our collaborative efforts empower researchers in solving global issues.
CMU Population by the Numbers
7,734+
students representing 126+ countries
606+
faculty representing 63+ countries
61,552+
alumni representing 150+ countries
View CMU Fact Sheet (PDF)
The Latest at CMU

Oct 01, 2025
The Long Game: Years of CMU Discoveries Drive New Parkinson's Treatment

Sep 30, 2025
Peacocks Eating Ice Cream: CMU Philosophers Teaching AI to Ask 'Why?'

Sep 23, 2025
jasujazumdinski
Chemists Can Discover New Materials More Quickly With AI

Sep 23, 2025
Carnegie Mellon Named a Top 20 US University

Sep 22, 2025
Better Screening Tool for Sickle Cell Disease Progression

Jun 05, 2025
Kirsten Martin Appointed the H. John Heinz III Dean of the Heinz College of Information Systems and Public Policy

jasujazumdinski