Skip to main content
jasujazumdinski
President in the News - 2019
We will lead the transformation of higher education
November 24, 2019
Farnam Jahanian, the president of Carnegie Mellon University, outlined his vision for re-imagining the student experience both within and beyond the classroom. The president was speaking at a reception for Carnegie Mellon University in Qatar (CMU-Q) alumni. Addressing the audience, Jahanian asked: “At CMU, we are asking a fundamental question: how do we prepare the next generation for a future of work that is always changing?” Jahanian described educational innovations that will give Carnegie Mellon students the tools they need to succeed in a rapidly changing global workplace.
Gulf Times and MENAFN
Kagame launches new CMU-Africa campus, lauds diversity of students
November 22, 2019
In his speech, Jahanian stressed that CMU's mission is rooted in the idea that education is society's great equalizer. "It has the power to bridge social, racial and geographical divides like no other force," he said, calling for significant investment in education across the African continent. He added that in today's global economy that is knowledge-driven, the role of education is more important than ever, especially in Africa, which will be home to the youngest and fastest-growing population in the world for the next three decades.
The New Times Rwanda
U.S. Transportation Secretary Announces $8 Million Grant at Special Traffic21 Conference at Carnegie Mellon
November 7, 2019
"The work of Traffic21 and its university transportation center has resulted in three spinoff companies that have created hundreds of technology jobs in Pittsburgh, attracted tens of millions of dollars in private investment," noted CMU president Farnam Jahanian at a special two-day conference that began Thursday.
KDKA
Highmark gives $35 million to Carnegie Mellon University wellness center
November 7, 2019
CMU president Farnam Jahanian said students' mental and physical health is critical to ensuring their lifelong success, both personally and professionally. "We are delighted to extend our partnership with Highmark Health to bring to fruition our vision for a unified, comprehensive facility that supports many facets of students' well-being," said Jahanian.
Pittsburgh Tribune Review
CMU sets $2B fundraising goal; half of it already is in hand
October 30, 2019
Carnegie Mellon President Farnam Jahanian said society is at a pivotal point, and as such, "this is truly a unique moment for Carnegie Mellon." He said the scale, scope and pace of advances in areas from artificial intelligence and neuroscience to data-mining is unprecedented, offering promise but also risks in various aspects of life. "How well society manages the intersection of technology and humanity will set the stage for the next several decades," he said. "We believe Carnegie Mellon is so well positioned to help write the story of this century."
Pittsburgh Post-Gazette
Where Online Learning Goes Next
October 4, 2019
Today’s educators have to rethink higher education for a world that’s being overturned by technology. As Farnam Jahanian, President of Carnegie Mellon University, recently observed, “The unprecedented pace of societal change makes the need for reform more urgent. There is great pressure on higher education as the engine of progress in a knowledge-based economy.”
Harvard Business Review
Mill 19 Opening Signals New Era of Manufacturing
September 4, 2019
Carnegie Mellon University researchers and robots will soon occupy a state-of-the-art facility at the newly constructed Mill 19 building on the 178-acre site known as Hazelwood Green. “Mill 19 at Hazelwood Green represents both our storied past and the promise of the region’s future as a global innovation leader,” said CMU President Farnam Jahanian. “The opening of this hub will usher in a new era of manufacturing while also serving as a powerful reminder of what we can achieve when public, private, civic and community partners come together to fuel innovative discovery and broaden opportunity.”
Mirage News
CMU moves to boost its presence at Hazelwood Green with land acquisition
July 24, 2019
Carnegie Mellon University is preparing to expand its presence at Hazelwood Green, a significant boost in the development of the 178-acre riverfront site. “This is a transformative opportunity for the university, both to create flexibility to address our space needs for the future and to continue to attract new industry partners and jobs to the area,” CMU President Farnam Jahanian said in a statement. “We recognize the responsibility this brings and embrace the opportunity to engage our Hazelwood neighbors and partners with our faculty, staff and students to shape plans for the site.”
Pittsburgh Post-Gazette
Argo AI Invests $15 Million For Robocar Research Center At Carnegie Mellon
June 24, 2019
Argo AI, a Pittsburgh-based artificial intelligence and autonomous vehicle tech company, is investing $15 million to establish a Center for Autonomous Vehicle Research at Carnegie Mellon University to improve self-driving technology. “We are thrilled to deepen our partnership with Argo AI to shape the future of self-driving technologies,” Carnegie Mellon President Farnam Jahanian said. “This investment allows our researchers to continue to lead at the nexus of technology and society, and solve society’s most pressing problems.”
Forbes
Monticello High School's Madeline Michel to Receive 2019 Excellence in Theatre Education Tony Award
May 23, 2019
The Tony Awards announced today that Theater Director Madeline Michel from Monticello High School in Charlottesville, Virginia, will receive the 2019 Excellence in Theatre Education Award. This is the fifth anniversary of the award and "the role of arts in education and in society has become more essential with each passing year," said Carnegie Mellon University President Farnam Jahanian. "This year's selection pays tribute to all drama teachers, Madeline Michel especially, who are making the world a better place by amplifying students' voices through theatre."
Broadway World
Machine Learning and Artificial Intelligence and its Effect on the Battlefield
May 10, 2019
U.S. Special Operations Command partnered with Carnegie Mellon University to host the 19th Sovereign Challenge Conference held in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, April 30 – May 3. The conference included a visit to Carnegie Mellon University, a world-renowned institution known for producing industry leaders in the fields of science and engineering. CMU President Dr. Farnam Jahanian, welcomed them. “Melding of cyber and the physical world means access to data is growing, but lines are becoming blurred,” said Jahanian. “The professors and students at this university are in the forefront in trying to understand how the physical and cyber will intersect.”
DVIDS
CMU-Q Fetes 78 New Graduates
May 7, 2019
Carnegie Mellon University in Qatar (CMU-Q) has celebrated the graduation of the Class of 2019, with 78 students receiving their degrees. Farnam Jahanian, president of Carnegie Mellon University, remarked: “Never has life been more complex or so full of potential – and more in need of CMU graduates like you. The story of this century will depend on the things that you do best: answering the questions that will be critical to our future and exploring exciting new modes of discovery.”
Gulf Times
Farnam Jahanian Recounts His Life's Story in Feature Profile
May 1, 2019
"As an immigrant, serving my country was such an honor. I am very proud of my academic record and the research I have done. And I am proud of the students I have mentored, and the impact I have had through entrepreneurship. But, besides my children, what I am most proud of is my service in the public sector." Farnam Jahanian, president of Carnegie Mellon University, writes about life, family, and the work that matters.
Pittsburgh Quarterly
Air Force Science and Technology Team Deepens Partnership with CMU Center of Excellence
May 1, 2019
Secretary of the Air Force Heather Wilson announced plans to embed a 10-person science and technology team focused on robotics within Carnegie Mellon University’s Center of Excellence. The partnership underscores the changes that can advance robotics and associated technologies within the Air Force. Farnam Jahanian, CMU president, said, “We look forward to continuing to advance research and education in these emerging fields, which are so critical to the security and economic competitiveness of our nation.”
Air Force Materiel Command
‘Hamilton’ star Leslie Odom Jr. to deliver CMU commencement address
April 2, 2019
Tony and Grammy Award-winning actor and singer Leslie Odom Jr. is returning to Carnegie Mellon University. “Leslie’s award-winning acting and music has inspired millions and the CMU community is immensely proud of his success as an alumnus on Broadway, in the recording studio and as a writer,” CMU President Farnam Jahanian said.
Pittsburgh Tribune Review
U.S. Army is investing $72 million into CMU for artificial intelligence research
March 11, 2019
Carnegie Mellon University and the U.S. Army have entered into a $72 million cooperative agreement to accelerate research and development of artificial intelligence technologies. CMU will lead a group of universities that will work in collaboration with the Combat Capabilities Development Command Army Research Laboratory. Dr. Jahanian said, “At this time of accelerating innovation, Carnegie Mellon is eager to partner with ARL and with universities across the nation to leverage the power of artificial intelligence and better serve the army mission in the 21st century.”
Pittsburgh Post-Gazette
Conference celebrating new MIT Schwarzman College of Computing explores the changing face of higher ed.
February 28, 2019
Dr. Jahanian delivered the keynote address at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology celebration of their Stephen A. Schwarzman College of Computing. His presentation touched on themes of global transformation catalyzed by rapid acceleration of digital technologies.  “The impact of these technologies is ubiquitous," Jahanian said, noting that these changes require a profound rethinking of the role of education in this rapidly changing environment.
MIT News
CMU to Qatar Alumni: Ethics Integral to Education
February 4, 2019
Dr. Jahanian, members of the Board of Trustees and CMU leadership hosted an alumni event at Carnegie Mellon University in Qatar (CMU-Q), where Jahanian emphasized CMU's work in both artificial intelligence research and in ethics. Jahanian pointed to the alumni of CMU-Q as "an integral part of CMU's borderless vision for education and innovation," saying that CMU's transformative education examines the impact of the technology being developed.
Gulf Times
U.S. Army has opened its AI Task Force at CMU
February 1, 2019
The U.S. Army officially activated its Artificial Intelligence Task Force at the National Robotics Engineering Center in Lawrenceville. President Jahanian welcomed elected officials and researchers from nearly a dozen universities to showcase AI solutions that the Army can use not only on the battlefield but also in rescue missions and in protecting civilians.
Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

jasujazumdinski