Student Admission
Learn, create and innovate with the very best.
Here, you can collaborate with groundbreaking researchers, artists and business leaders, as well as peers from all over the globe, to make a real, practical impact worldwide.
Our results speak for themselves, with companies like Google and Pixar, research institutions, theater companies and startups hiring our graduates. Because if you start here at CMU, you can go anywhere.
Undergraduate Admission
Set a course for your future with a CMU bachelor's degree, which prepares you to solve real-world challenges and lead in your chosen field. Learn about our admission process, how to apply and our on- and off-campus events for prospective students.
Learn About CMU Undergraduate Admission
Graduate Admission
Push the boundaries of knowledge and innovation with CMU’s world-class faculty and research opportunities. Earn a master’s degree or Ph.D. to elevate your skills and apply them in professional or academic settings.
Learn About CMU Graduate Admission
CMU Students by the Numbers
0+
undergraduate students who thrive on hands-on research experience.
0+
graduate students who tackle real-world challenges.
0%
of the student population are international students, giving our campus a global perspective.
Our Commitment to Access and Affordability
Carnegie Mellon commits millions of dollars annually to help you finance our world-class education. See how we craft personalized financial aid packages using grants, scholarships, student employment and loans.
Access & Affordability
Financial Aid
Tuition & Fees
jasujazumdinski
Visit Carnegie Mellon
Experience CMU’s academic rigor and research facilities — and our unique traditions — by visiting our Pittsburgh campus. We offer guided tours, a virtual tour and online and in-person information sessions.
Plan a Visit to CMU
Pre-College Summer Programs at CMU
Experience life as a Tartan. Our Pre-College Programs offer rising high school juniors and seniors the opportunity to live on campus and take courses taught by distinguished CMU faculty across 10 exciting fields.
Explore Our Pre-College Programs
Next Steps for Prospective CMU Students
Explore Carnegie Mellon University’s boundary-pushing academic programs and interdisciplinary research — and imagine yourself here.
Majors & Programs Graduate Programs Visit
jasujazumdinski