Skip to main content

Traditions
Connected to the Past, Shaping the Future
At Carnegie Mellon University (CMU), traditions are more than just events — they're a celebration of our bold and collaborative community. Some commemorate the Scottish heritage of our founder, Andrew Carnegie, while others originate from previous CMU students. These hallmark experiences help create the fabric of the university, building a tight-knit campus with a creative, quirky spirit.
From the distinctive sounds of the Carnegie Mellon Pipes and Drums to the joyful energy of Spring Carnival, our traditions embody our fearless, visionary spirit, honor our rich history and pave the way for an extraordinary future.
Explore the many annual traditions and programs where the entire CMU community comes together to connect, engage and unleash their Tartan pride.

The Fence at CMU
Have a message for campus? Paint it on the Fence, a tradition that made the original structure the most painted object in the world. Help our current Fence retake that title.
Learn About the Fence

Spring Carnival
The oldest CMU tradition, this three-day event features student-built booths, racing robots, live entertainment and an array of delectable food options.
Learn About Spring Carnival
CMU Traditions and Activities
Explore our annual events that foster the Tartan spirit.
Sweepstakes
A thrilling highlight of Spring Carnival is Sweepstakes, in which CMU students build and race aerodynamic "buggies" at speeds up to 35 mph.
Scotty Saturday
This daylong celebration of Carnegie Mellon spirit features CMU-themed activities, student talent showcases, free snacks and giveaways.
Greek Sing
In this annual event supporting local charities, CMU fraternities and sororities perform 15-minute versions of your favorite musicals.
The FAIR and Winter FAIR
Explore CMU's diverse student organizations and outdoor recreation partners. The fairs take place early in the fall and spring semesters.
Kiltie Band
The Kiltie Band rocks kilts — what else? — while bringing their infectious, irreverent energy to CMU sporting events.

jasujazumdinski
Our Connection to the City
Carnegie Mellon’s traditions include embracing Pittsburgh’s rich culture. Immerse yourself in the city’s unique offerings through these opportunities:
Arts Pass
Unlock free access to renowned museums and attractions with your CMU ID, from the Andy Warhol Museum to the National Aviary.
Pittsburgh Connections
Join outdoor adventures, cultural exploration and environmental stewardship across Pittsburgh through subsidized experiences.

Explore More CMU Traditions
From treats during finals week to hearing the sound of bagpipes on campus, discover more CMU traditions that become lifelong memories.

Bagpipers
It doesn't get more Scottish than bagpipes. Carnegie Mellon's Pipes and Drums can be found practicing around campus and performing at formal university events.

Autographs
Behind the stage of Kresge Theatre senior "dramats" (drama students) sign the walls and ceiling before graduating. Among these young hopefuls: Ted Danson, Blair Underwood and Holly Hunter.

Almost Midnight Breakfast
CMU staff and faculty cook omelets and serve you breakfast during finals week in the fall and spring semesters.
PreviousNext
1/3

Cultivating Future Leaders
We take immense pride in training the leaders of tomorrow. Learn about our time-honored traditions that empower you to unlock your full potential and celebrate your achievements:

Emerging Leaders
Senior Leadership Recognition
Senior Engagement


jasujazumdinski