Skip to main content

Continuing Education at Carnegie Mellon
Invest in Yourself, Invest in Your Future
At Carnegie Mellon University, we embrace a culture of continuous learning and growth. We want to help you expand your knowledge and push boundaries so you can elevate your career trajectory or create innovative solutions for your organization.
Explore our degrees, certificates and courses, which are tailored to meet the evolving demands of today's workforce. With CMU’s continuing education programs, you can stay ahead of the curve and contribute to the forefront of innovation in your field.

In-Person and Online Degrees and Certificates
Elevate your expertise with our graduate programs.
Integrated Innovation Institute
Create new products and services with our master's degrees and certificate programs that combine engineering, design and business. They are available in Pittsburgh, Silicon Valley or online.
Privacy Engineering Program
Begin an in-demand career in privacy engineering. We offer a master’s program with full-time, part-time and online options.

“Expect to experiment and to collaborate, and more importantly, to come in with an expectation that you will have to balance both those technical and business skills.”
Kimberly Barnes
Master of Science in Software Management ‘26
Explore the M.S. in Software Management

Executive Education Solutions
Advance your skills or train your team with CMU’s expertise. Learn about our customized solutions that meet your organization's needs.
jasujazumdinski
Executive Education in Software and Societal Systems
Taught by CMU experts, our information technology training program seamlessly integrates academic theory and real-world applications to help your team thrive in the evolving technology landscape.
Center for Executive Education in Technology Policy
Our interdisciplinary programs equip government officials and global leaders to make informed decisions about technology-related public policy issues to foster investment and growth.

Osher Lifelong Learning Institute
Increase your knowledge and interact with peers by becoming an Osher Lifelong Learning Institute member. Learn from members, CMU faculty and community representatives on our Pittsburgh campus or online.
Become an Osher Member
More CMU Academic Programs
Online Programs
Our online graduate certificates and master's degree programs in AI, business, data science, engineering and more feature live classes taught by CMU faculty.
Graduate Programs
CMU’s master’s and Ph.D. programs offer experiential research and comprehensive academics that set you apart from your peers.

jasujazumdinski