Skip to main content
Messages from the President
Latest Communications
Read communications from the president below.
Enhancing Enterprise Creation, Entrepreneurship and Industry Engagement at CMU
Wednesday, September 24, 2025
To help CMU maintain its edge in a rapidly evolving environment, in the fall of 2023, I convened a Presidential Advisory Board (PAB) on Enterprise Creation, Entrepreneurship and Industry Engagement. I charged the PAB with assessing CMU’s current strengths, identifying areas where we must be more agile and effective, and proposing strategies that will allow us to better support discovery, translation and a broader impact.
A Community Effort to Shape the Next Chapter of the Fence
Thursday, September 4, 2025
To ensure that the Fence's tradition continues to thrive, I am convening a working group dedicated to advancing conversations about the role of the Fence in campus life today and in the future. This group will bring forward recommendations that preserve the spirit of the tradition while addressing the realities of modern society and the needs of our diverse campus community.
Welcome to the New Academic Year!
Monday, August 25, 2025
Welcome to the start of the 2025-2026 academic year! Each fall, the return of our students, faculty and staff brings a renewed sense of energy and possibility to Carnegie Mellon. I could not be more excited for the year ahead.
jasujazumdinski
Meeting the Challenges of a Shifting Landscape
Wednesday, August 20, 2025
As we enter a new academic year during these uncertain times, I wish to update you on CMU’s financial outlook and how we are navigating these challenges while remaining grounded in our commitment to our people and our mission.

At this pivotal time for society, I am truly in awe of all that Carnegie Mellon has to offer, fueled by your extraordinary energy.
President Farnam Jahanian
Academic Year Welcome Message, Aug. 25, 2025

Next Steps for The Fence and Campus Dialogue
Monday, July 21, 2025
The Fence is open for messages once again. I want to thank Student Government for their understanding when I asked to pause Fence activity to allow me to engage with the leadership of the Faculty Senate, Staff Council, the Alumni Association Board and the Board of Trustees.
A Message About the Fence and Discourse at CMU
Wednesday, July 16, 2025
Yesterday, Carnegie Mellon University hosted the Pennsylvania Energy and Innovation Summit at the request of U.S. Senator Dave McCormick. This major event was attended by more than 900 technology and business leaders who came to CMU's campus for important conversations.
Tomorrow’s Energy and Innovation Summit
Monday, July 14, 2025
For the past several weeks, Carnegie Mellon University has been preparing to host the inaugural Pennsylvania Energy and Innovation Summit, convened by U.S. Senator David McCormick. I want to provide a brief overview of tomorrow’s events.
jasujazumdinski
Call for Honorary Degree Nominations
Monday, July 7, 2025
I am writing to invite and encourage you to nominate candidates to be considered for an honorary degree from Carnegie Mellon University. Please submit nominations no later than Sept. 5, 2025.
SEI Secures 5-year Contract Renewal
Thursday, June 25, 2025
I am writing today to highlight an important milestone for Carnegie Mellon University. Earlier this week, the U.S. Department of Defense renewed the university’s contract to operate the Software Engineering Institute (SEI) in service to the nation.
CMU to Host Energy and Innovation Summit Convened by Sen. David McCormick
Friday, June 13, 2025
As announced by U.S. Senator David McCormick and reported in the media, President Donald Trump is expected to attend a national Energy and Innovation Summit hosted on the CMU campus on Tuesday, July 15. This Summit, convened by Sen. McCormick, will bring together leaders from government, industry and academia for a day of conversations on technology, innovation and national strategy. Given the high-profile participants already identified, the event is likely to draw national attention and planning is underway accordingly.
Statement on U.S. Steel-Nippon Steel Partnership
Thursday, May 29, 2025
For more than a century, steel shaped our communities, powered our economy and stood as a symbol of American strength. The U.S. Steel-Nippon Steel partnership marks a bold new chapter in this story and a transformative opportunity for the Western Pennsylvania region.
jasujazumdinski
Renewing our commitment to CMU Qatar
Friday, May 16, 2025
I am writing to share that, with the endorsement of our Board of Trustees, Carnegie Mellon University has renewed its commitment to our CMU-Qatar campus and our partnership with the Qatar Foundation for another 10 years.
CMU125: Inspired by the past, building for the future
Wednesday, May 7, 2025
Today, we’re introducing CMU125: The Power of Possibilities, a celebration of Carnegie Mellon’s impact over our 125-year history. During this yearlong celebration, a new interactive website will share some of our university’s greatest achievements and showcase the strong foundation we’ve built for seizing opportunities and rising to new challenges now and over the next 125 years.
CMU’s Response to Federal F&amp;A Cap for NSF
Monday, May 5, 2025
I am writing to share that Carnegie Mellon University has joined in a new lawsuit filed by the Association of American Universities (AAU) against the federal government. This lawsuit, filed in the First District of Massachusetts, challenges the National Science Foundation’s newly announced 15% facilities and administrative (F&amp;A) rate cap on all prospective grants.
Our Updated Strategic Framework: The Persistent Pursuit of Excellence
Thursday, April 24, 2025
A decade ago, we came together as a university community to chart an ambitious course for the future, with a strategic plan that guided us through a transformative decade of growth. Today, we are excited to share the next chapter in that journey: an updated strategic framework to shape our persistent pursuit of excellence.
jasujazumdinski
Announcing our 2025 Commencement Speaker and Honorary Degree Recipients
Wednesday, April 02, 2025
I am thrilled to announce our distinguished honorary degree recipients and keynote speaker for Carnegie Mellon University's 2025 Commencement, which will take place on Sunday, May 11, in Gesling Stadium.
Navigating a Shifting Landscape
Wednesday, March 26, 2025
Across higher education and beyond, we are witnessing a time of profound change — challenges that test us and opportunities that demand our boldest ideas. I know that we are all contemplating what this means for CMU and our community members, and I want to share some thoughts on how we are approaching this moment as an insitution.
A New Deeper Conversations Focus
Monday, March 10, 2025
I am pleased to share that we will be devoting our Deeper Conversations series this semester to helping our university community traverse the role of the U.S. government in society.
Commitment to Academic Excellence and Community Standards
Friday, February 21, 2025
Yesterday, university leadership was made aware by concerned community members of fliers for an on-campus event advertising an "uncensored discussion" about the former leader of Hamas. This discussion is not approved nor endorsed by the university in any way.
Launch of CMU's 2025 United Way Campaign
Monday, February 17, 2025
One of the most meaningful ways our Carnegie Mellon Tartan community supports the Pittsburgh region is through our enduring support of the United Way of Southwestern Pennsylvania.
jasujazumdinski
Update on CMU's Response to F&amp;A Funding Cap
Monday, February 10, 2025
I am writing this evening to confirm that Carnegie Mellon University has joined in a lawsuit filed by the Association of American Universities (AAU) against the federal government.

2025
2024


jasujazumdinski