Democracy Day
Democracy Day at Carnegie Mellon University is dedicated to fostering civic participation, well-being and community engagement for the whole of the CMU community, regardless of whether you are eligible to vote in the upcoming election.
Tuesday, November 4, 2025
On Democracy Day, which coincides with Election Day, there are no classes prior to 5 p.m. On that day, the entire CMU community — faculty, staff and students — is encouraged to participate in events happening across campus and in the broader community. Those eligible and planning to vote, act as a poll worker, or volunteer in the community to assist voters are encouraged to utilize the day to do so.
Democracies, and communities in general, are most able to thrive when their community members are actively engaged throughout the year, sharing their perspective and ideas, deepening their understanding of the complexities of the challenges facing their community, and taking part in opportunities to address those needs. To encourage participation not just in the upcoming election, but in ongoing engagement, the Democracy Day committee is planning a slate of events in the lead up to the election, for our Democracy Day celebration, and beyond, acting as a centralized resource for all democracy-related activities.
jasujazumdinski
Voting Resources
Access to reliable, non-partisan voting information is critical for voters to make informed decisions and effectively exercise their right to vote. Through resources and programming, CMU Votes and Democracy Day efforts strive to equip voters with the tools they need to confidently navigate the voting process. This includes understanding how to register and where to vote, and learning about the candidates and issues on the ballot. By providing comprehensive resources, we aim to support an informed electorate, empowering individuals to participate fully in democracy with clarity and confidence.
CMU Voter Resources
PA Voter Registration (Andrew ID Required)
Non-PA Voter Registration (TurboVote)
Why We Participate: Understanding Civic Motivations
Democracy offers residents multiple avenues for participation–such as voting, petitioning government officials, joining advocacy efforts, supporting candidates, and engaging in both electoral and non-electoral activities. Reflection on the varied personal, social, and cultural forces that shape participation in democratic life, particularly in relation to voting, connects residents to multiple pathways for participation. By drawing attention to diverse perspectives on community needs, the goal is to cultivate a deeper understanding of civic engagement and encourage more deliberate, informed involvement in democracy.
Elections & You: Understanding how our values impact our decision making
jasujazumdinski
Well-Being and Democracy
Fostering a healthy community—physically, mentally, and emotionally—strengthens democratic participation by intentionally linking civic engagement and personal well-being. By promoting wellness as part of Democracy Day, we encourage individuals to approach civic duties with balance and resilience, ensuring that the act of voting and engaging in democracy is supported by overall personal well-being.
Coping with Election Stress: Take Steps to Reduce Stress and Manage Our Reactio…
Coping with Election Stress: Navigating Difficult Conversations [PDF]
Education & Action
U.S. citizens and non-citizens alike have the opportunity to actively shape their communities by making their voice heard, advocating for social issues, and engaging with elected officials. By connecting knowledge with practical steps for involvement, we aim to highlight the importance of turning education into action—whether through dialogue, advocacy, or local engagement. Engagement opportunities will emphasize that understanding the issues, the political landscape, and how governance works is essential for making meaningful contributions to society.
Deeper Conversations
Democracy Day Events
10/7/2025
Voter Registration Drive
10/7/2025
Know your Ballot (NVEW)
10/8/2025
Make a Plan to Vote (NVEW)
10/9/2025
Voter Registration Drive (NVEW)
10/9/2025
Understanding Upcoming Local Elections
10/10/2025
Voter Engagement Office Hours (NVEW)
10/10/2025
Voter Engagement Office Hours
10/10/2025
Register to Vote (NVEW)
10/17/2025
Voter Engagement Office Hours
10/24/2025
Voter Engagement Office Hours
More events
jasujazumdinski
Committee Members
Gabriel Aguirre
Undergraduate Student, Information Systems
Chelsea Blackburn Cohen
Senior Manager for Strategic Initiatives and Engagement
Zach Berger
Undergraduate Student, Carnegie Mellon Institute for Strategy and Technology
Jonathan Cervas
Assistant Teaching Professor, Carnegie Mellon Institute for Strategy and Technology
Mark D'Angelo
Manager of Educational Initiatives and Engagement
Colleen Eagan
Coordinator of Student Involvement and Traditions
Johnny Gallick
Undergraduate Student, Carnegie Mellon Institute for Strategy and Technology
James Hanafee
Masters Student, Public Policy and Management
Jennifer McCurry
Program Director of Religious and Spiritual Life Initiatives
Candace Okello
Assistant Dean for Civility Initiatives
Liz Vaughan
Associate Dean of Student Affairs, James and Sharon Rohr Director of Community Engagement
Greg Wong
Doctoral Student, Materials Science and Engineering
Sihan Wu
Undergraduate Student, Carnegie Mellon Institute for Strategy and Technology
jasujazumdinski