Tepper School of Business Leadership Transition
September 18, 2025
Dear Members of the Carnegie Mellon Community:
I am writing to share that Isabelle Bajeux-Besnainou has informed me of her decision to step down as dean of the Tepper School of Business at the end of her term on July 1, 2026. Dean Bajeux-Besnainou was appointed to this role in 2020, and in 2022, she was installed as the Richard P. Simmons Professor of Finance. She will return to the faculty full-time to resume her teaching and research.
Dean Bajeux-Besnainou's leadership has been instrumental in advancing the Tepper School's strategic priorities, teaching and research mission. During her tenure, she successfully completed re-accreditation through 2030, expanded classroom and office spaces and grew executive education offerings. Her accomplishments also include evolving the master's program portfolio to adapt to a changing business environment and launching the Tepperspectives leadership platform.
Dean Bajeux-Besnainou guided the development of the Tepper School of Business’ 2024-2030 Strategic Plan, “Building the Intelligent Future”, which aims to elevate the school to new heights of excellence and innovation in business research and education. This plan, now in full motion, serves as a roadmap for the future, ensuring that the Tepper School is uniquely positioned to empower the next generation of business leaders to harness the potential of artificial intelligence, in particular large language models and other emerging technology.
Dean Bajeux-Besnainou's vision and leadership has enhanced the school's reputation and expanded its reach, setting the stage for a promising future. In recent years, the Tepper School has achieved notable recognition by U.S. News & World Report. In 2025, its full-time MBA program ranks No. 1 in Business Analytics, No. 2 in Project Management, No. 3 in Finance and No. 18 overall. The Online MBA program ranks No. 1 in Business Analytics and No. 3 overall. Additionally, the undergraduate program holds the No. 6 position.
I will soon announce the formation of a search committee to identify the next dean of the Tepper School. Please join me in thanking Isabelle for her service and leadership, and in congratulating her on her many achievements as dean of the Tepper School of Business.
Sincerely,
James H. Garrett Jr.
Provost and Chief Academic Officer
jasujazumdinski