Skip to main content

Interdisciplinary Programs at Carnegie Mellon
Pursue Your Passions Without Boundaries
At Carnegie Mellon University, we cross traditional boundaries and shatter academic silos. Our undergraduate and graduate levels empower you to follow your intellectual curiosities wherever they lead — from the latest computational biology research to next-gen entertainment technology marvels.
Our interdisciplinary DNA encourages you to seek excellence, challenge assumptions and forge creative discoveries. Here, you'll develop the integrative mindset to achieve more than you ever thought possible — and even reach for the moon.

BXA Intercollege Degree Programs
Blend analytical study and creative training with CMU’s BXA Intercollege Degree Programs. Take courses in both the College of Fine Arts and other disciplines to fuse your passions, from computer science and engineering to humanities and science.
Explore CMU's BXA Programs

Integrative Design, Arts and Technology Network (IDeATe)
Fuse technology with artistic expression with an interdisciplinary minor from IDeATe. Gain expertise across engineering, fine arts, humanities, sciences, computer science and business fields as you study topics such as game design, intelligent environments and immersive technologies.
Learn About IDeATe Minors
Interdisciplinary Programs at CMU
Browse our many interdisciplinary studies opportunities. Additional programs may exist within CMU’s schools and colleges.
jasujazumdinski
Bachelor’s Degrees and Undergraduate Programs

BXA Intercollege Degree programs
Bachelor of Computer Science and Arts
Bachelor of Science in Computational Biology
Bachelor of Science in Music and Technology
Humanities Scholars Program
Interdisciplinary Human-Computer Interaction (additional major)
Integrative Design, Arts and Technology Network: IDeATe (minors)
Undergraduate Economics Program

Master’s Degree Programs in Engineering, Science, Information Technology and Medicine

Additive Manufacturing (MS)
Center for the Neural Basis of Cognition (CNBC) Graduate Training Programs
Computational Biology (MS)
Computational Finance (MSCF)
Energy Science, Technology and Policy (EST&amp;P) Program
Engineering &amp; Technology Innovation Management (E&amp;TIM)
Information Networking Institute Degrees
Information Networking (MSIN)
Information Security (MSIS)
Information Systems Management (MISM)
Information Technology - Information Security (MSIT-IS) – Bicoastal delivery
Information Technology (MSIT)
Integrated Innovation for Products &amp; Services (MIIPS)
Medical Scientist Training Program (MSTP) (with the University of Pittsburgh)
Mobile and IoT Engineering (MSMITE) – Bicoastal delivery
Product Management (MSPM)
Software Management (MSSM) – Silicon Valley

Master’s Degree Programs in Arts, Design, Music and Entertainment

Arts Management (MAM)
Entertainment Industry Management (MEIM)
Entertainment Technology (MET)
Integrated Innovation for Products &amp; Services (MIIPS)
Master of Design (MDes)
Music and Technology

Doctoral Programs

Computational Biology (CPCB) (with the University of Pittsburgh)
Machine Learning (ML Ph.D.)
Ph.D. Programs in Entrepreneurship, Innovation &amp; Technology (SETChange Ph.D. &amp; TCE Ph.D.)
Program in Interdisciplinary Education Research (PIER)

jasujazumdinski
ROTC Programs

Air Force ROTC
Army ROTC (with University of Pittsburgh)
Naval ROTC

Frequently Asked Questions About Interdisciplinary Studies
What Are the Advantages of an Interdisciplinary Degree Program?
By integrating multiple areas of study into your undergraduate or graduate program, you gain creative, technical and practical skills that position you to drive innovation across disciplines in unique ways. Benefits to interdisciplinary studies include:

Pursuing multiple interests by choosing areas that interest you most
Accessing diverse expert insights and methodologies across CMU disciplines
Following your intellectual curiosity to new or more efficient solutions
Learning to communicate and collaborate with people with different academic backgrounds
Building integrative problem-solving abilities prized by employers

How Do Requirements for CMU’s Interdisciplinary Programs Differ From More Traditional Programs?
You can complete most CMU interdisciplinary programs within the same timeframe as traditional undergraduate or graduate programs. The key difference lies in the flexibility to customize your academic path. Choose courses from multiple departments or colleges as you fulfill your degree requirements.
Undergraduate students: If you are adding a double major or an additional major to create an interdisciplinary experience, be sure to talk to an academic advisor. Generally, it is possible to fulfill the requirements of both majors in four years by taking the course requirements of the second major in the elective spaces allowed by the first major.
jasujazumdinski
What Are the Kinds of Interdisciplinary Studies Available to Students at Carnegie Mellon?
For undergraduate students, we offer interdisciplinary majors, additional majors and minors. In addition, you can pursue many of our programs as a double major or additional major alongside your primary area of study. You can create a truly individualized path that matches your interests and goals.
For graduate students, we provide interdisciplinary master’s degrees and Ph.D. programs.
Consult our academic advisors to explore the possibilities or design a customized degree plan. They can guide you in combining fields to craft an education tailored to your unique goals.

jasujazumdinski