Skip to main content

Research That Moves the World Forward
Where Research Gets to Work

Discover Work That Matters
See AI Research and Policy Impact
Explore Research &amp; Creativity

Featured News

Academic Excellence
Carnegie Mellon University Welcomes Second Cohort of Rales Fellows

Neuroscience
The Long Game: Years of CMU Discoveries Drive New Parkinson's Treatment

Technology
CMU Drones Can Make Construction Sites Safer

Statistics &amp; Data Science
Peacocks Eating Ice Cream: CMU Philosophers Teaching AI to Ask 'Why?'

Academic Excellence
Carnegie Mellon Named a Top 20 US University
View More News

Faculty Who Are Leaders in Their Fields

We have software engineers, astronomers, trying to do something more powerful together. That’s very CMU.
Rachel Mandelbaum
Professor and Physics Department Head
Watch: What If We Could Analyze Every Inch of Our Universe?

1300
+
Faculty
Our professors bring their expertise to classrooms and labs, mentoring students and advancing research across disciplines.
22
+
Members
Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra musicians serve as distinguished faculty in our School of Music to inspire the next generation of talent.
21Nobel Prizes
Our faculty and alumni have received this prestigious award, widely recognized as one of the highest honors an individual can receive, in 5 of the 6 possible categories.
jasujazumdinski
The Birthplace of AI
Carnegie Mellon University has been at the forefront of artificial intelligence since its early days, helping to shape the field through bold ideas, pioneering research and visionary leadership. From founding key institutions to launching entirely new areas of study, CMU has played a central role in advancing computing and AI. Today, our work continues to drive innovation and make a lasting impact across industries and society.

First Artificial Intelligence Program
Herbert Simon and Allen Newell create Logic Theorist, a computer program that could solve logic puzzles in the same way a human might in a game of chess.

Terregator
Terregator pioneered exploration, road following and mine mapping. It was the world’s first rugged, capable, autonomous outdoor navigation robot.

First Language Recognition System
Kai-Fu Lee, Raj Reddy and Roberto Bisiani create SPHINX, the first real-time recognition of speech to programming with AI techniques.

First Robotics PhD Program
The world’s first doctoral program in robotics is offered at CMU.

First Self-Navigating Automobile
Scientist Dean Pomerleau and Ph.D. student Todd Jochem’s Navlab 5 drives from Pittsburgh to San Diego, the longest continuous test of an autonomous vehicle in a real-world setting.

First Machine Learning Department
Considered the world’s first machine learning academic department.

First Self-Driving Vehicles
CMU’s and General Motors self-driving SUV “BOSS” wins the 2007 DARPA Urban Challenge, a driverless car competition.

First AI Undergraduate Major
The first offered by a U.S. university in response to extraordinary technical breakthroughs in AI and the growing demand by students and employers.

First AI Engineering Degree
CMU announces a new first-of-its-kind Master of Science in Artificial Intelligence Engineering degree, combining AI and machine learning with engineering domain knowledge.
195519841987198819952006200720182022
1 / 1
jasujazumdinski
Academics at CMU
Academics at CMU connects classroom learning with cutting-edge research and world-renowned faculty to shape the world’s brightest minds. Students collaborate across disciplines to drive progress in technology, policy, the arts and beyond.
Explore Academics

What I love most about the College of Engineering is that everyone you meet carries a genuine passion for making the world a better place.
Shagun Maheshwari
Materials Science Engineering Graduate, Class of 2025
See Undergraduate Majors and Programs

At the end of the day, I want to be someone who is helping people in a way that has the broadest impact possible.
Lameck Beni
Graduate Student and Rales Fellow
Explore Graduate Programs

Before hearing about CMU, I didn't think it was possible to pursue and thrive in such unrelated fields together. I've learned to use my concentrations to help one another succeed.
Roy Huang
Recent BXA Graduate
Learn About Interdisciplinary Programs

10/8 - 10/11
CMU Drama Presents: The House of Bernarda Alba
Events
10/7/2025
Carnegie Mellon Opera: Putting it Together
10/8/2025
The Ukraine-Russia Conflict: Global Stakes and Local Realities with former U.S. Ambassador to Ukraine William Taylor
10/9/2025
Exhibition - Character: Lived, Tested, Exposed
until Nov. 3
10/11/2025
Carnegie Classic Ballroom Dance Competition
More events
Explore More Events

jasujazumdinski