Skip to main content

Resources on the Federal Transition
Resources on the Federal Transition
The presidential administration has advanced national policies and priorities that are impacting higher education. This webpage is a central resource, offering updates, guidance and tools to help our university community members navigate this shifting national landscape.
University Messages

Guidance Ahead of Potential Government Shutdown(September 2025)
FY25 NIH Funding Disruption Resolved (July 2025)
New Travel Bans Announced (June 2025)
Student Visa Updates (May 2025)
CMU’s Response to Federal F&amp;A Cap for NSF (May 2025)
International Student Status Update (April 2025)
Continuing Support for Immigration Issues (April 2025)
Update on Immigration Issues Affecting CMU and Available Resources (April 2025)
Navigating a Shifting Landscape (March 2025)
Update on Recent Executive Order Impacting Federal Contracts and Grants (Feb. 2025)
Update on CMU's Response to F&amp;A Funding Cap (Feb. 2025)
Regarding the NIH’s New Policy Guidance on Indirect Costs (Feb. 2025)
Addressing Recent Executive Orders (Jan. 2025)

Immigration Resources

Executive Order Related to H-1B Nonimmigrants Issued (September 2025)
U.S. Visa Update: New Guidance for Nonimmigrant Applicants (September 2025)
International Travel Considerations and Immigration Resources (April 2025)
FAQs Regarding U.S. Immigration (ICE) Enforcement

Student Resources

CMU Cares Form to access assistance for students
Community Health &amp; Well-Being
Community Health &amp; Well-Being Student Support Resources
Counseling and Psychological Services support groups
Gender Affirming Care
Healthcare for LGBTQIA+ Students
Office of International Education
Student Affairs Resources
Wellness &amp; Meaning-Making Programs

jasujazumdinski
Faculty and Staff Resources

Federal Update Guidance for Researchers
Support Resources
Wellness &amp; Meaning-Making Programs
Work That Matters: Frequently Asked Questions

Association of American Universities
CMU is a member of the Association of American Universities (AAU), which has emerged as a powerful advocate for the life-changing impact of academic research taking place at the 71 leading research institutions in North America that comprise AAU membership.
Read a statement from the AAU Board of Directors on the importance of our research universities and the dangers of withdrawing federal research funding. (March 2025)

External Federal Resources
Congress.gov \| Congress.gov Glossary
Tracks legislation, congressional hearings, and policymaking that may impact research funding, student aid and regulatory policies affecting universities.
Department of Education (ED)
Provides updates on federal education policies, funding opportunities, and key announcements.
Department of Energy (DOE)
Access to current policies, guidance, and operational requirements governing energy-related research and programs.
Department of Health and Human Services (HHS)
Provides updates on health policies, public health initiatives, and federal funding opportunities.
Department of Homeland Security (DHS)
Updates on immigration policies, international students, and security regulations impacting higher education.
Federal Register
Provides daily updates on federal regulations, executive orders, and agency notices.
Government Accountability Office (GAO)
Provides definitions of terms related to federal auditing, budgeting, and policy, helping to clarify complex government processes.
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA)
Provides updates on missions, scientific advancements, and agency initiatives impacting space exploration and research.
National Institutes of Health (NIH)
Highlights upcoming policy and compliance changes for federally funded research projects administered by the National Institutes of Health starting in 2025.
National Science Foundation (NSF)
Executive orders affecting science, research, and federally funded initiatives.
Office of Management and Budget (OMB)
Budgetary, grant, and procurement changes that impact federally funded programs in higher education.
White House News
Features official news, statements, and press releases directly from the White House, providing updates on executive actions and federal policy.

jasujazumdinski