Skip to main content
jasujazumdinski
President in the News - 2023
Innamorato Transition Team Suggests New Administration’s Priorities for Allegheny County
November 8, 2023
Allegheny County Executive-elect Sara Innamorato announced her transition team . She said the group will be tasked with recruiting new county leaders and creating the “most inclusive community engagement effort” in county history. A talent committee will focus on “recruiting dedicated and diverse leaders” to join county government. The committee will be co-chaired by Partner4Work CEO Robert Cherry, Carnegie Mellon University president Farnam Jahanian and PA United executive director Jennifer Rafanan Kennedy.
90.5 WESA
Carnegie Mellon Receives $25M Gift for Computational Biology
November 6, 2023
Carnegie Mellon University has received a $25 million gift from longtime Trustee Ray Lane and his wife, Stephanie, to support the institution’s Computational Biology Department. “In recognition of this investment and their prior support of the program, CMU will name the department the Ray and Stephanie Lane Computational Biology Department,” CMU President Farnam Jahanian said.
Pittsburgh Tribune Review
CMU Creates Fellowship Honoring Former Congressman and Ttech Advocate Mike Doyle
October 18, 2023
Carnegie Mellon University has established a fellowship recognizing former Congressman Mike Doyle's contributions to southwestern Pennsylvania and the nation as a champion of integrating technology with policy to catalyze societal change and economic opportunity. “Throughout his political career, Mike has been deeply invested in nurturing an ecosystem of innovation and using it to open doors of economic opportunity," CMU President Farnam Jahanian said.
Pittsburgh Business Times
'Violins of Hope' Exhibit Preserves the Memory of Jewish Musicians
October 7, 2023
Violin makers Amnon and Avshalom Weinstein rescued and restored more than 100 violins that Jewish musicians played in concentration camps and ghettos during the Holocaust, and their Violins of Hope exhibit showcasing the instruments opened in October in the Posner Center at Carnegie Mellon University in Oakland. “The exhibit is a landmark community project that showcases the resiliency of the human spirit,” said Farnam Jahanian. “It is truly breathtaking.”
Pittsburgh Tribune-Review
Gov. Shapiro Creates AI Governing Board to Steer the State’s Use of Generative AI
September 20, 2023
Gov. Josh Shapiro signed an executive order to create a AI governing board for Pennsylvania that will guide the commonwealth’s use of generative artificial intelligence, including developing training programs for state employees. Shapiro signed the order at Carnegie Mellon University in Pittsburgh, which will work with the AI governing board to guide the state’s use of the technology. “Artificial intelligence is rapidly transforming nearly every sector of our economy,” CMU President Farnam Jahanian said at the event. “I’m grateful to have a leader in Harrisburg that recognizes the potential and the urgency of this moment.”
Pennsylvania Capital-Star
CDC Gives CMU $17.5M for Outbreak/Disease Monitoring Center
September 20, 2023
Carnegie Mellon University will receive $17.5 million from the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention to create a center specializing in data and monitoring of outbreaks and diseases. "Carnegie Mellon University's Delphi Research Group has spent the last decade tracking trends related to the flu or other pathogens and pioneering groundbreaking techniques for epidemic forecasting," said CMU President Farnham Jahanian. "The new center will see our researchers and scholars apply the same meticulous lens to new pathogens, expand to new data sources and techniques, and help prepare local and state public health agencies for future public health emergencies."
Pittsburgh Business Times
Court Strikes Down Race-Conscious Admissions Practices
June 29, 2023
Pittsburgh universities, both public and private, can no longer consider race in their admissions decisions after the U.S. Supreme Court deemed the practice unconstitutional. In a statement, Carnegie Mellon President Farnam Jahanian reinforced the university’s commitment to expanding access to educational opportunities, adding that CMU has “confidence in our ability both to follow the law and to promote access and opportunity as essential to fostering a vibrant learning community.”
Public Source
Carnegie Mellon President Named to Homeland Security Panel
June 22, 2023
Carnegie Mellon University’s president has been added to an advisory council to the U.S. Department of Homeland Security. Farnam Jahanian from CMU is among 20 additions announced in Washington by Homeland Security Secretary Alejandro N. Mayorkas. The 30-member Homeland Security Academic Partnership Council advises the Secretary on matters including campus safety and security, improved coordination, research priorities and hiring, the agency said. Mayorkas reconstituted the panel in 2022.
Pittsburgh Tribune Review
Children’s Museum Presents Great Friend of Children Award to President Farnam Jahanian
June 15, 2023
At its Great Night Gala and 40th birthday celebration, Children’s Museum of Pittsburgh honored CMU President Farnam Jahanian with the Great Friend of Children Award for Jahanian’s and CMU’s efforts to create lasting and impactful experiences for K-12 students across the Pittsburgh region. “Receiving the Great Friend of Children Award is very humbling,” Jahanian said. “I am grateful for this recognition as a representative of the many CMU faculty, staff and leadership who have nurtured the long legacy of engagement between the Pittsburgh community, the Children’s Museum and Carnegie Mellon for decades.”
CMU News
U.S. Department of Transportation Awards Carnegie Mellon $20 million to Develop Transportation Safety Research Center
May 30, 2023
A total of $20 million in federal grant funding from the U.S. Department of Transportation is headed to Carnegie Mellon University for the development of a new research center, Safety21, that will study the safe and equitable deployment of autonomous transit technologies in the coming decade. "This award from the U.S. Department of Transportation affirms Carnegie Mellon’s long-established leadership in developing technology and informing policy to improve our nation’s transportation network," Carnegie Mellon President Farnam Jahanian. "The impact of Safety21’s research will be expanded by the Center’s intentional focus on equal access to safe and sustainable transportation for all communities."
Pittsburgh Business Times
Carnegie Mellon University Tops $2 Billion Fundraising Goal; Extends Campaign
April 27, 2023
Carnegie Mellon University announced this week that it had surpassed its initial fundraising goal of $2 billion in its current capital campaign. With $2.13 billion raised so far, about 18 months ahead of the original schedule, the university indicated it would extend its Make Possible: The Campaign for Carnegie Mellon University until June 30, 2025. “Carnegie Mellon was founded by an extraordinary act of philanthropy, and that spirit of giving is only stronger today as evidenced by supporters of our Make Possible campaign,” said President Farnam Jahanian. "While $2.13 billion — and counting — is a remarkable measure of the exceptional generosity of our community of supporters, even more important are the opportunities those gifts create for our research and education mission.”
Forbes
State of the University 2023
March 30, 2023
Over the course of the 2023 State of the University to faculty and staff, Carnegie Mellon University President Farnam Janahian's illustrated how CMU is transforming society through innovation, education and research, providing updates on the university’s enrollment, admissions, finances and what he called “our incredible people" as well as highlights on the growing demand for a CMU education, new talent in senior leadership and success in faculty and staff recruitment. He also provided details about how the university’s HR team has advanced support for staff and faculty in recent years and shared positive news about the university’s continued financial support of its central mission and strategic priorities including student health and wellness, financial aid and improved learning spaces. The address included an overview of the vision for CMU's future.
The Piper
Rales Foundation bets big on Carnegie Mellon STEM students
February 22, 2023
Carnegie Mellon University and the Norman and Ruth Rales Foundation hope a $150 million initiative will support a new generation of students trying to achieve that American dream. The foundation pledged $116 million, in addition to $34 million from CMU, to endow scholarships for graduate students studying STEM from groups underrepresented in the fields, including racial minorities, women and first-generation college students. “We felt strongly, not only this is an important issue that the country needs to tackle because of its implication for our economic prosperity, for our global competitiveness, as well as our national security,” CMU President Farnam Jahanian said.
AP News
New government office hopes to transform business in PA
January 24, 2023
With the creation of a new state office, Governor Josh Shapiro is trying to make good on a campaign promise to spurn economic growth. With the stroke of a pen, the Office of Transformation and Opportunity is now born.“I believe we have a real opportunity to unlock Pennsylvania's innovation potential,” said Farnam Jahanian, President of Carnegie Mellon University.
CBS 21

jasujazumdinski