Academic Calendar Advisory Board
The Academic Calendar Advisory Board (previously the Calendar Innovation Committee), convened in 2019, was originally charged with reviewing our academic calendar and making recommendations that advance student-centered efforts to provide a strong academic experience that is supportive of creative pedagogy and community well-being. In 2020, the committee pivoted its work to provide recommendations in response to the pandemic, resulting in a proposed 14-week semester, which was piloted in the fall 2021 and spring 2022.
Throughout the pilot, the committee monitored and listened to our community's feedback. Its work was highly collaborative, looking both qualitatively and quantitatively at the perspectives of our faculty, students and advisors across all schools and colleges, including undergraduate and graduate programs.
At the committee's recommendation, the 14-week semester, including a week-long Fall Break, was permanently instituted starting in AY23-24.
Committee Charge
The Academic Calendar Advisory Board will act as a guiding post for faculty and administrative voices in setting the calendar.
The Advisory Board will continue to:
Advocate for student-centered efforts and provide a strong academic experience that is supportive of creative pedagogy and faculty and student wellbeing
Provide guidance and advice on the academic calendar and associated deadlines
Assess Democracy Day as a day off from classes
Work towards aligning University academic calendars across all programs/locations where possible
To cultivate a transformative university community committed to attracting and retaining diverse, world-class talent; creating a collaborative environment open to the free exchange of ideas, where research, creativity, innovation and entrepreneurship can flourish; and ensuring individuals can achieve their full potential.
James H. Garrett, Jr.
Provost and Chief Academic Officer
jasujazumdinski
Committee Members
Wendy Arons
Professor of Dramatic Literature, School of Drama;
Director of the Center for the Arts in Society
Amy Burkert
Senior Vice President for Academic Initiatives
John Gasper
Associate Teaching Professor of Economics and the Director of Learning Evaluation and Success,
Tepper School of Business
Keith Gehres
Associate Vice Provost for Enrollment Innovation
and Student Experience \| Interim Associate Dean of
Admission
Linda Gentile
Director, Office of International Education
John Hannon
Associate Vice President for Community Life
Ken R. Hovis
Teaching Professor and Assistant Dean for
Educational Initiatives, Mellon College of Science
Alyson Jarnagin
Senior Director, Heinz College Academic & Advising
Services
Golan Levin
Professor of Art, College of Fine Arts
Michael J. Mccarthy
Associate Teaching Professor of Information
Systems, Heinz College
Cindy Mccauley
Senior Business Manager, Tepper School of
Business
Jennifer McCurry
Coordinator of Religious and Spiritual Life Initiatives
Rebecca Nugent
Fienberg Professor of Statistics & Data Science
Department Head, Dietrich College
John Papinchak
University Registrar
Silas Wang
Undergraduate Student, Dietrich College
Emily Weiss
Associate Director, Faclty Teaching Initiatives,
Eberly Center
jasujazumdinski