Skip to the content
← What’s on View
Francesco Solimena, Phaethon asking to drive the chariot of Apollo, ca.1715-1716, Carnegie Museum of Art, Heinz Family Fund
In the wake of Europe’s imperial expansion, which included the colonization of North and South America and the Caribbean in the 16th and 17th centuries, extensive military and economic activity transformed the regions that border the Atlantic Ocean. A new world—the Atlantic World—emerged, in which wars, competitive trade, and the enslavement of millions of Africans created new societies in Africa, Europe, and the Americas.
As ideas, knowledge, and beliefs moved together with people and materials across the ocean, shaping new mindsets and understandings of the world, European elite culture singled out certain objects as art, to be appreciated primarily for their beauty and emotional power. In that process, which also led to the creation of the first art museums, a rift opened between our understanding of these works of art and the political forces and transoceanic networks that made their creation possible. Acknowledging the fault lines of art history, this exhibition explores what can be imagined when works in the collection are brought in conversation with those made by artists who lived at the fluid boundaries of the Atlantic world’s entangled empires.
The exhibition is organized by Marie-Stéphanie Delamaire, curator of European and American art.
Get Your
Tickets Now 🎟
jasujazumdinski
Events and Programs
In Conversation:
Fault Lines—Mapping Absence
Thurs., Sept. 25, 6:30 p.m.
Talks and Lectures
In Conversation: Fault Lines—The Atlantic World
Thurs., Nov. 6, 6:30 p.m.
Talks and Lectures
Read, Watch, Listen
José Antonio Aponte’s Book of Paintings and the 1812 Rebellion
Essays
Fault Lines: Art, Imperialism, and the Atlantic World
Exhibition Brochures
Exhibition Images
Installation view of Fault Lines: Art, Imperialism, and the Atlantic World, Carnegie Museum of Art, 2025; photos: Zachary Riggleman
Select Works
Bartolomé Estebán Murillo, Young Christ (Niño Jesús), ca. 1670-1675, Carnegie Museum of Art, Heinz Family Fund
Guillaume Guillon-Lethière, Portrait of Adèle Papin Playing the Harp, 1799, Carnegie Museum of Art, Heinz Family Fund
Sir Peter Lely, Louise Renee de Penencoet de Kerouaille, Duchess of Portsmouth, 1665, Carnegie Museum of Art, Gift of Mrs. George Leary
Simon Vouet, The Toilet of Venus, ca. 1640, Carnegie Museum of Art, Gift of Mrs. Horace Binney Hare
British or Jamaican, Comb, ca. 1675–1705, Carnegie Museum of Art, DuPuy Fund
Spanish School, Saint Benedict of Palermo, 1747, Carnegie Museum of Art, Heinz Family Fund
Francesco Solimena, Phaethon asking to drive the chariot of Apollo, ca.1715-1716, Carnegie Museum of Art, Heinz Family Fund
jasujazumdinski
Support
Generous support for this exhibition has been provided by the Henry J. Gailliot Exhibitions Endowment Fund. Additional support for this exhibition has been provided by the Bernard S. and Barbara F. Mars Works on Paper Art Exhibition Endowment.
Carnegie Museum of Art’s exhibition program is supported by the Carnegie Museum of Art Exhibition Fund and The Fellows of Carnegie Museum of Art.
Carnegie Museum of Art is supported by The Heinz Endowments and Allegheny Regional Asset District. Carnegie Museum of Art receives state arts funding support through a grant from the Pennsylvania Council on the Arts, a state agency funded by the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.
Premiere Partners
Get Your
Tickets Now 🎟
jasujazumdinski