Skip to primary navigation
Skip to primary sidebar
Menu
« All Events
R.W. Moriarty Science Seminar: The Colors of Dinosaurs
October 9, 6:00 pm - 7:00 pm
Event Navigation
« Family Nature Walk
Powdermill Avian Research Center Guided Tour »
Talk: The Colors of Dinosaurs: Using the Fossil Record and Living Birds to Determine Extinct Animal Coloration
Speaker: Dr. Sarah Davis, Collection Manager of Paleobiology, Carnegie Museum of Natural History
When: Thursday, October 9, 2025, 6:00–7:00 p.m.
Where: Art Theater and online via Zoom; Reception to follow in Café Carnegie
Tickets: Free. Museum admission not required.
Dr. Sarah Davis, Collection Manager of Paleobiology, will present her research on determining the colors of extinct dinosaurs using both fossil evidence and insights from living animals. While many fossils show that dinosaurs could have had black, brown, grey, and even shiny colors, not all pigments will fossilize. By looking at the evolution of pigments in living animals, along with evidence from the fossil record, it is possible to infer if dinosaurs may have also been able to express bright colors such as red, yellow, and pink. Dr. Davis will discuss which dinosaurs may have been most likely to express these vivid colors, and ongoing challenges in the field of paleo-coloration.
Please join us for a reception in Café Carnegie immediately following the seminar.
Registration is required to attend R.W. Moriarty Science Seminars. Sign-up below to attend in person or click here to join us via Zoom.
Adult012345678910
Free
Senior012345678910
Free
Student012345678910
Free
Register
jasujazumdinski
Upcoming R.W. Moriarty Science Seminars
Learn about scientific discoveries directly from the experts in the field. Carnegie Museum of Natural History’s scientific research staff and invited speakers discuss their latest findings on numerous scientific topics at the R.W. Moriarty Science Seminar series.
Add to calendar
Google Calendar
iCalendar
Outlook 365
Outlook Live
Details
Date:  October 9  Time:
6:00 pm - 7:00 pm
Event Tags:RW Moriarty Science Seminars
Event Navigation
« Family Nature Walk
Powdermill Avian Research Center Guided Tour »
jasujazumdinski