Skip to the content
← What’s on View
Installation view, Ana Serrano, Detail of American Gaze, after school, Carnegie Museum of Art, 2025, photo: Zachary Riggleman
after school begins with the first bell. It brings together architects, artists, and educators to study the state and stakes of public education. Through spatial propositions, installations, alternative playgrounds, and curricular proposals, the participants consider architectural, pedagogical, and representational structures that shape how knowledge is created, shared, taught, or withheld. From itinerant classrooms to cooperative experiments, the archival material and contemporary works in the exhibition explore ways of learning otherwise, coming together to imagine a school unbound.
after school tends to the contradictions of schools, where students are assessed, sorted, and disciplined; where prevailing norms are enforced and histories redacted. And yet schools are also spaces of play, discovery, and collective care, where rights have been fought for and standards contested. Amid that tension, the exhibition considers how schools not only reflect the world around them but also shape the life of streets, neighborhoods, and cities.
Situated within an increasingly uncertain educational landscape in the US—the culmination of decades of disinvestment and erosion of civic and democratic institutions— after school turns toward Pittsburgh. Here recent proposals for school closures and consolidations carry on existing processes of displacement, segregation, and restructuring. In dialogue with contemporary works, the exhibition presents case studies that trace the layered histories of public education in the region—from the city’s first public high school and New Deal-era programs to cooperative school gardens and Black-led Street Academies of the 1970s. These fragments document cycles of learning, unlearning, and collective praxis across shifting policies, built infrastructures, and forms of refusal and community care.
after school grows over time—through activations, open workshops, and public convenings. With resident educators, neighbors, and visitors, the museum extends beyond the gallery and the classroom, inviting ways of studying together for a school not yet here.
after school is curated by Theodossis Issaias, curator at Heinz Architectural Center, and Alyssa Velazquez, assistant curator, with McKenzie Stupica, curatorial fellow.
Get Your
Tickets Now 🎟
jasujazumdinski
Events and Programs
after school: Educators’ Back to School Celebration!
Fri., Aug. 29, 5 p.m.
Roll call for all K–12 educators—please join us for a special back-to-school celebration in honor of YOU and the opening of the exhibition after school, where architects, artists, designers, and educators come together to study the state of public education.
Party
A Matter of Gathering: after school Teaching and Learning
Thurs., Sept. 11, 9 a.m.
This day of praxis informed by the current exhibition , after school invites out of school time educators to join architect and artist Leah Wulfman, scholar and educator Ujju Aggarwal, and neighborhood learning organization, Children’s Window to Africa for a day of collective learning, connecting and reflecting on how teaching and learning communities are formed.
Conferences
In Conversation: after schooling with Leigh Patel
Tues., Nov. 4, 5 p.m.
Join us for a talk with transdisciplinary scholar, writer, educator, and cultural worker Leigh Patel. Building on her research, practice, and the exhibition after school, Patel will share her work that explores the possibilities of liberatory learning for all of us.
Talks and Lectures
In Conversation: Learning Spaces and after school Book Launch
Thurs., Nov. 13, 5 p.m.
Join architects, scholars, and archivists Toshiko Mori, Teddy Cruz, Fonna Forman, David Serlin, and James Hill as they discuss their work in the exhibition after school and how spaces can shape knowledge in an uncertain educational landscape. This conversation will be followed by a celebratory book launch in Café Carnegie.
Co-Presented
jasujazumdinski
Installation Views
Installation view, Vicky Achnani, Detail of The Urban Classroom, after school, Carnegie Museum of Art, 2025, photo: Zachary Riggleman
Installation view, Estudio Teddy Cruz + Fonna Forman, Cross-Border Public Spaces that Educate, after school, Carnegie Museum of Art, 2025, photo: Zachary Riggleman
Installation view, Ana Serrano, Detail of American Gaze, after school, Carnegie Museum of Art, 2025, photo: Zachary Riggleman
Installation view, Leah Wulfman, Young Architects Program, after school, Carnegie Museum of Art, 2025, photo: Zachary Riggleman
Installation view, Laura Montoya, Detail of Antonia with Mushrooms, after school, Carnegie Museum of Art, 2025, photo: Zachary Riggelman
Installation view, Danielle Dean, Mega School (Ford; Amazon), Child Floating in Space (United States Steel Corporation; Pennsylvania Railroad), and Astra Nova (Ford) 2025, after school, Carnegie Museum of Art, 2025, photo: Zachary Riggleman
Installation view, Danielle Dean, A Child Floating in Space: The American Dream of Education, after school, Carnegie Museum of Art, 2025, photo: Zachary Riggleman
Installation view, Gabo Camnitzer, Lots of Dots, after school, Carnegie Museum of Art, 2025, photo: Zachary Riggleman
Installation view, Toshiko Mori, Thread Artists’ Residency and Cultural Center Model, after school, Carnegie Museum of Art, 2025, photo: Zachary Riggleman
jasujazumdinski
Read, Watch, Listen
The Student Body—Gabo Camnitzer
Videos
Seeding Instructions—Soul Fire Farm
Essays
jasujazumdinski
Contemporary Practices
Vicky Achnani is an architectural designer, educator, and maker based in Pittsburgh, serving as full-time special faculty at Carnegie Mellon School of Architecture. His design-build practice—rooted in material experimentation and social engagement, employs unconventional, sustainable methods in underserved communities. A licensed architect in India, he earned his B.Arch from CEPT University and M.Arch from Yale, supported by the India2EU II and J.N. Tata scholarships. Prior to Yale, he taught studio courses at CEPT and other universities.
Gabo Camnitzer is an artist and educator working across experimental pedagogy, installation, and video. Camnitzer’s work revolves around questions of education and knowledge exchange, often focusing on childhood to examine the societal structures that surround and shape subjectivity. Camnitzer is Associate Professor of Art Education and Director of the Saturday Studios Program for children at Massachusetts College of Art and Design in Boston, Massachusetts. He has previously held teaching positions at UMass Dartmouth, Columbia University, Valand Academy, Sweden, as well as public elementary schools in New York City.
Teddy Cruz (MDes Harvard University) is a Professor of Public Culture and Urbanization in the Department of Visual Arts at the University of California, San Diego. He is known internationally for his urban research of the Tijuana/San Diego border, advancing border neighborhoods as sites of cultural production from which to rethink urban policy, affordable housing, and public space.
Working with archives, video, performance, social practice, sculpture, and drawing, Danielle Dean investigates the recursive loops between the circulation of ideas and the material reproduction of global capitalism. Operating across media and with a variety of collaborators and participants, her work examines the fault lines within this seemingly closed circuit. Dean received an MFA from California Institute of the Arts and is an alumna of the Whitney Independent Study Program. Recently completed projects include new commissions for Mercer Union, Toronto (2024), a solo show at Tate Britain, London (2022), and Performa, New York (2021).
Fonna Forman (PhD University of Chicago) is a Professor of Political Theory at the University of California, San Diego and Founding Director of the UCSD Center on Global Justice. Her work focuses on climate justice, borders and migration, and participatory urbanization. She serves as Co-Chair of the University of California’s Global Climate Leadership Council.
Together they lead the UCSD Community Stations, a research-based urban and architectural design practice at UC San Diego, investigating borders and migration, informal urbanization, emergency housing, bioregional climate resilience, civic infrastructure and public culture. They lead variety of urban and environmental research agendas in the San Diego-Tijuana border region and beyond.
Toshiko Mori is founder and principal of Toshiko Mori Architect in New York City. She is the Robert P. Hubbard Professor in the Practice of Architecture at Harvard Graduate School of Design and was previously chair of the Department of Architecture (2002–2008). Mori currently serves as the vice president of architecture for the American Academy of Arts and Letters and she is also a member of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences.
Sankofa Village Community Garden and Farm’s goal is to eradicate the Food Apartheid that exists within our Homewood, Pittsburgh community. To rekindle the intergenerational atmosphere that has long been a touchstone of our communities. To engage and provide the community with the opportunity to benefit from food self-sufficiency, to provide place-based urban agriculture education, to enable the community access to food production and to provide opportunities for entrepreneurship.
Ana Serrano earned her BFA from Art Center College of Design (2008). Serrano was born and raised in Los Angeles and is a first-generation Mexican American. She is inspired by the intersection of her dual cultural identities. She is best known for creating work that references the built environment using brightly-colored cardboard and paper. Serrano currently lives and works in Portland, Oregon.
Soul Fire Farm is an Afro-Indigenous centered community farm and training center dedicated to uprooting racism and seeding sovereignty in the food system. With deep reverence for the Earth and wisdom of our ancestors, we practice regenerative agroecology, raise and distribute life-giving food, equip the rising generation of BIPOC farmers, and mobilize communities to work toward food and land sovereignty.
Crystal Clarity is an artist, illustrator, printmaker, dream weaver, and visual strategist for movement moments. She brings 15+ years experience directing community mural projects and mentoring young people in using art for activism. In 2020 she launched Medicine Walls, partnering with organizers to promote social transformations through public art. She supports activists in visual resistance, strengthening strategies for direct actions and protests, aiming to magnify collective imagination for a better world through mentorship and skill-sharing.
Currently rooted in the Hudson Valley, Lala Montoya was born and raised in Medellín, Colombia. She draws inspiration from abundant nature, recognizing inherent individual richness, which manifests in her compelling earthy art across ceramics, wood carving, painting, and printing blocks. Through these mediums, Montoya seeks to illuminate the beauty of time and age, making transparent small details often missed. Working with youth in her partnerships keeps this work vibrant and alive.
Naima Penniman is a multidimensional artist and visionary poet rooted in land stewardship and community organizing as Co-Founder of WILDSEED Community Farm & Healing Village and Curator of Programs at SOUL FIRE FARM. Through the groundbreaking work of Climbing PoeTree, Naima has performed poetry and music, created murals, and facilitated arts activism workshops globally. Naima’s writing is published in numerous works, and her art has been featured in the Museum of the City of New York, The African American Museum in Philadelphia, The Museum of Contemporary African Diasporic Art, and Museo Del Barrio.
Leah Wulfman is a Carrier Bag architect, educator, game designer, digital puppeteer, and occasional writer. Trained as an architect, Wulfman assembles hybrid virtual and physical spaces in order to prototype new relationships to technology and nature, as well as challenge normative ideologies so often reinforced by technology and architecture. In addition to mixed reality installations that play with and emphasize the physical, material basis of everything digital, their research focuses on gamified environments, interactions and materials.
jasujazumdinski
Sites of Learning
Burgwin Elementary
Demountable Schools
Great High Schools
Herron Hill Junior High/Milliones University Prep
Manchester Street Academy
Martin Luther King Jr. Elementary
Mifflin Elementary and Junior High
Northview Heights Elementary
Peabody High School/Obama Academy
Pioneer Elementary
Schenley High School
Selected Works
Charles "Teenie" Harris, Young children at protest demonstration across from Columbus Middle School site on the North Side, 1967 Carnegie Museum of Art, Heinz Family Fund © Carnegie Museum of Art
Toshiko Mori, Thread Artists Residency and Cultural Center, Photo Courtesy of IWAN BAAN
Manchester: Street Academy, 1970, Courtesy of Pittsburgh City Archives
Danielle Dean, The Homework Machine (1981), 2025, Courtesy of the artist
Leah Wulfman, Young Architects Program, 2024, Courtesy of the artist
Link Weber & Bowers, architects and Otto R. Eggers, delineator, Mifflin Elementary School, 1931, Carnegie Museum of Art, Gift of Pittsburgh Public Schools
Edward Stotz, architect and Edward Delk, delineator, Schenley High School, 1915, Carnegie Museum of Art, Gift of Pittsburgh Public Schools
Liff Justh and Chetlin, architects, Second Floor Reflected Ceiling Plan for Martin Luther King Jr., 1971, Courtesy of Pittsburgh Public Buildings Facility
John Pekruhn et al, Demountable School, Perspectival Elevation Drawing, 1961-1962, Courtesy of Carnegie Mellon University of Architecture Archives
Teddy Cruz and Fonna Forman, The UC San Diego Community Stations: Cross-Border Public Spaces that Educate, 2025, Courtesy of the artist
Gabo Camnitzer, Lots of Dots, 2021; photo: Hai Zhang
jasujazumdinski
Acknowledgements
Carnegie Museum of Art would like to thank the Carnegie Library of Pittsburgh, Carnegie Mellon University of Architecture Archives, the Detre Library & Archives at Sen. John Heinz History Center, Equity Advisory Panel, and Pittsburgh Public Buildings Facility for generously sharing primary documents and reference materials.
Collaborators and Publication Contributors
This publication includes essays by Ujju Aggarwal, Laura Nelson, Leigh Patel, and David Serlin, conversations between Miguel Braceli and Stefan Gruber, Sister IAsia Thomas and Wanda Henderson, Regina Holley, Tamanika Howze, Anthony Mitchell, James Stewart, William Thompkins (Equity Advisory Panel), Dr. Sala Udin and Dana Bishop-Root, and contributions from Sarosh Anklesaria, Martin Chetlin, Rachel Delphia, Paula and Jolene Elder, Jillian Forstadt, Noah Fritsch, James Hill, Ayanna Jones, Lynn Kawaratani, Justin Laing, Lajja Mistry, and Pete Vitti. Drawings by Sharvi Kamal Shah and Nicholas Thies.
Support
The programs of the Heinz Architectural Center are made possible by the generosity of the Drue Heinz Trust.
Carnegie Museum of Art’s exhibition program is supported by the Carnegie Museum of Art Exhibition Fund and The Fellows of Carnegie Museum of Art.
Carnegie Museum of Art is supported by The Heinz Endowments and Allegheny Regional Asset District. Carnegie Museum of Art receives state arts funding support through a grant from the Pennsylvania Council on the Arts, a state agency funded by the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.
Get Your
Tickets Now 🎟
jasujazumdinski