Skip to the content
← What’s on View
Forum 91
Water has been a recurring presence in the work of Charles Harlan (b. 1984, Smyrna, GA), whose sculptures surface and reflect various material and human histories. His readymade objects of choice, which are brought together with minimal alteration, are drawn from industrial, agricultural, and domestic aspects of the built environment. In their original contexts, they have use value as components of machinery, labor, trade, and craftsmanship. Through Harlan’s assembly and presentation as art, they summon symbolic connotations from which surprising conversations about meaning-making can emerge. They also challenge fundamental assumptions about what sculpture can and should be.
With Chimney (2025), a new commission by the museum, Harlan brings the ubiquitous and millennia-old practice of bricklaying into the gallery space. Familiar and simple in its form yet estranged and surreal in its context, his sculpture is modeled from a free-standing chimney that he encountered in an open field. The resulting work stands as a fragment of a home that no longer exists. At once inside and outside, it is rinsed continuously as if under perpetual rain. “Creating the work,” Harlan proposes, “opens a portal to that place and the experience of seeing it there.”
The exhibition is organized by Eric Crosby, Henry J. Heinz II Director, Carnegie Museum of Art, and Vice President, Carnegie Museums of Pittsburgh.

Courtesy of Charles Harlan
jasujazumdinski
Read, Watch, Listen

Charles Harlan

Exhibition Brochures

Support
Major support for Carnegie Museum of Art’s Forum series is provided by the Juliet Lea Hillman Simonds Foundation.
Additional support for this exhibition is provided by the Ruth Levine Memorial Fund.
Carnegie Museum of Art’s exhibition program is supported by the Carnegie Museum of Art Exhibition Fund, The Fellows of Carnegie Museum of Art, and the Carnegie Collective.
Carnegie Museum of Art is supported by The Heinz Endowments and Allegheny Regional Asset District. Carnegie Museum of Art receives state arts funding support through a grant from the Pennsylvania Council on the Arts, a state agency funded by the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.
Part of → Forum Series

Forum Series
Forum Gallery presents the work of living artists in an ongoing series that invites them to expand their practice through a commission or new presentation of existing works. Initiated in 1990, and with 86 projects to date, the Forum series is an opportunity for artists to deepen their relationship to and understanding of the museum.
jasujazumdinski