opens in new tab or window
In This Section
Trash & Recycling  - Collection Schedule and Newsletter
Curbside Pick Up    - Curbside Refuse
Curbside Recycling
Blue Bin Program
Bulk Pick Up
Protect Our Refuse Workers
Yard Debris
Missed Pick Up
Commercial Recycling
Special Event Recycling
Drop-Off Info & Additional Resources
Anti-Litter and Illegal Dumping
311
A - Z: Frequently Visited
ADA & Disability Rights
Snow Removal
Road Maintenance
Food Programs
Pets & Animals
Community Programming
Immigrant and Refugee Affairs
Tree Resources
Curbside Pick Up
The mission of Environmental Services is to establish and maintain a refuse and recycling system that promotes a safe, litter-free and environmentally friendly City for all of its residents and customers.
The City of Pittsburgh provides a range of pick-up of refuse waste (Show info) and recycling services. Choose which best suits your need here:
Curbside Refuse
Each week Environmental Services provides curbside pick up of common refuse.
Curbside Recycling
All residents of single-family homes and small apartments (five or fewer) must separate recyclable items from household trash and package them for bi-weekly recycling curbside collection.
Blue Bin Program
The City of Pittsburgh has recently wrapped a program to distribute 100,000+ blue recycling bins to residents and become bag free curbside by 2023.
Bulk Pick Up\
Protect Our Refuse Workers
According to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, refuse/recycling collection is one of the most dangerous jobs in America. Look out for our workers and your neighbors.
Yard Debris\
Missed Pick Up
If the waste that you properly set out was not picked up by Environmental Services, you can alert us and we will correct our mistake by sending out a truck for additional pick up!
jasujazumdinski
Medical Exemption
Medical Exemption Form for Physicians(PDF, 366KB)
To be filled out by a physician and returned to Environmental Services via mail, email or fax:
3001 Railroad Street
Pittsburgh, PA 15201
medical.exempt@pittsburghpa.gov
Fax: (412) 255-2452
Upon receiving this form, a Foreman from Environmental Services will visit with the resident to confirm that they live alone and/or have no other able-bodied person to carry the refuse and recycling to the curb. The resident will be required to sign an affidavit before service can start.
last updated: 04/04/2025
Back to top
Ready
jasujazumdinski