Skip to main content
opens in new tab or window
In This Section

City Planning
Mobility and Infrastructure
Permits, Licenses, and Inspections  - Applications &amp; Forms
OneStopPGH
Permits
Licenses    - Business Licenses
Contractor Licenses
Trade Licenses

Bulletins
Community Resources
Code Enforcement
Condemned Buildings
PLI Fees
Building Codes
Appeals
PLI Contacts
Announcements
Registrations
Digital Equity In Pittsburgh
Small Business Resources
Public Works
Zoning
Geographic Information Systems, Mapping &amp; Open Data
Procurement
PGH Lab
Sustainability

General Contractor Licenses
The City of Pittsburgh requires that a General Contractor License is required for all work performed under a Commercial Building Permit. A General Contractor license is also required for the following permits:

Construction of new one or two family dwellings.
Renovations and/or additions to one or two family dwellings that are rental or investment property.
Demolition permits for commercial structures or residential primary structures.

Wondering How Much Your License Costs?
All Department of Permits, Licenses and Inspections fees change annually. Consult the Current Fee Schedule for new applications, renewals, and late fees.
Requirements

Government Issued Photo ID
A copy of a current, non-expired photo ID is required.
Insurance Info
A non-expired Certificate of Insurance showing general liability coverage for the applicant at the location where licensed activity will take place, and listing the City of Pittsburgh as the certificate holder and additionally insured.

Worker’s Compensation Insurance: A Certificate of Insurance showing Worker's Compensation coverage for the applicant business and listing the City of Pittsburgh as the certificate holder. If the business does not have any employees, then upload a notarized statement attesting that there are no employees.
Department of Permits, Licenses and Inspections Workers' Compensation Exemption Affidavit(PDF, 72KB).
- Tax Compliance Letter
  - A letter verifying that the applicant is in compliance with all relevant City taxes.
- Renovation, Repair, and Painting (RRP) certification
  - Customers applying for a new or renewal General Contractor license must provide their firm's EPA Lead, Renovation, Repair, and Painting (RRP) certification. The RRP certification is valid for 5 years.

jasujazumdinski
Expiration, Grace Periods, and Late Fees
For all contractor licenses, grace periods will begin at the expiration of a license and continue for sixty (60) days. If the licenses is not renewed within thirty (30) days after the expiration date, per the fee schedule, a late fee is incurred on the thirty-first (31st) day following the expiration date. If the license is not renewed within sixty (60) days after the expiration date, then on the sixty-first (61st) day following the expiration date, the license automatically lapses. All licensees that allow their license to lapse must apply for a new license and meet all new license requirements at the time of that new application. Permits related to the licensed activity will be suspended until a valid and current trade license is connected to the permitted work.
All licenses expire 365 days from the date of issuance.
All applications must be fully completed to be processed. An incomplete application will be returned to the applicant.
Resources
Renovation, Repair, and Painting (RRP) Certification
On November 30, 2021, Pittsburgh City Council passed a Lead Safety Law to protect the public from the dangers of lead-based hazards. Beginning May 29, 2022, customers applying for a new or renewal General Contractor license must provide their firm's EPA Lead, Renovation, Repair, and Painting (RRP) certification. The RRP certification is valid for 5 years. For more information about the RRP certification and how to obtain one, please visit the EPA's website.
Looking for additional info or clarification on your license requirements?
Check out the Rules and Regulations(PDF, 626KB)
How do I get a tax compliance letter?
Call or email the Department of Finance
last updated: 08/07/2025
Back to top
Ready
jasujazumdinski