Skip to main content
opens in new tab or window
In This Section

Police
Fire
Animal Care &amp; Control
Emergency Medical Services  - Ambulance Division
Rescue Division
Special Programs
Special Event Operations
Training Division
Annual Reports
EMS Contacts
Privacy Practices
Become a Paramedic
Freedom House EMT Training
Office of Community Health and Safety
Alerts
Public Safety

Become a Paramedic

Career Exploration
Thinking about joining our team but not sure if it’s right for you?
Check out our new Career Exploration Opportunity! This exciting new ride along experience is for those who currently hold a Paramedic or EMT certification. You'll be paired with a member of our EMS Recruitment Team for a shift to meet current providers, see our system, and explore the city!
Program Requirements

Must possess a current Paramedic or EMT Certification (State or National Registry)
Current valid drivers license
Must be at least 18 years of age or older
Provide proof of COVID vaccination
Must sign a liability/privacy waiver

Sign-up and get more information: Career Exploration Sign-up
Apply to be a Paramedic or EMT
We are hiring! Pittsburgh EMS is actively recruiting talented Paramedics and EMTs. Entry level and experienced providers are encouraged to apply. The Application Period opens and closes on a rotating basis. Please check the links below for current job openings or to complete an interest card.
To Apply, go to the City’s Online Employment Center.
For hiring updates, reminders and general notifications, fill out our Career Interest Form.
For questions or additional information on careers at Pittsburgh EMS, contact us directly at emsrecruiting@pittsburghpa.gov.
jasujazumdinski
Paramedic Requirements

Currently certified with a State Paramedic Certification and/or a Nationally Recognized Certification. Applicants must present a Pennsylvania Paramedic Certification prior to appointment.
Current, valid Pennsylvania driver's license.
Become a City of Pittsburgh resident before being appointed to the position.

EMT Requirements

Currently certified with a State EMT Certification and/or a Nationally Recognized Certification. Applicants must present a Pennsylvania EMT Certification prior to appointment.
Current, valid Pennsylvania driver's license.
Become a City of Pittsburgh resident before being appointed to the position.

Certifications and Training
The following organizations have Paramedic training programs:

Center for Emergency Medicine
Community College of Allegheny County

Already certified in another state? Please contact one of the Pennsylvania regional EMS offices to obtain information on receiving Pennsylvania certification.
last updated: 04/22/2025
Back to top
Ready
jasujazumdinski