opens in new tab or window
In This Section
City Planning
Mobility and Infrastructure
Permits, Licenses, and Inspections
Digital Equity In Pittsburgh
Small Business Resources
Public Works
Zoning  - Zoning FAQ
Planning Application and Process
Planning Reviews, Public Notices and Public Hearings    - Site Plan Review
Site Plan Requirements
Certificate of Occupancy
Administrator Exception
Design Review
Environmental Review
Construction Management Plans
Housing
Geographic Information Systems, Mapping & Open Data
Procurement
PGH Lab
Sustainability
Stormwater
About the Stormwater Review Process
The purpose of the Stormwater Plan Review is to manage runoff and encourage natural infiltration and ensure all proposed development complies with federal, state, and local regulations.
What is the purpose of stormwater code?(show below)
Managing stormwater runoff from land alteration and disturbance activities in accordance with watershed management plans.
Assuring that development activities do not result in increased stormwater flows.
Utilizing and preserving the desirable existing drainage system by preserving the flood capacity of streams.
Stream quality maintenance and improvement in accordance with watershed management.
Encouraging natural infiltration of rainfall to preserve groundwater recharge.
Managing stormwater runoff close to the source, reducing runoff volumes, and mimicking pre-development hydrology.
Ensuring proper operation and maintenance of all Stormwater Best Management Practices (BMPs) that are implemented within the City.
When is a stormwater plan required?(show below)
Stormwater Plan Reviews are triggered by one or more of the following:
10,000 sq. ft. of land disturbance (any grading, excavation, or fill activities that occur on a site) or 5,000 sq. ft. increase in impervious surface.
5,000 sq. ft. of land disturbance (any grading, excavation, or fill activities that occur on a site) subject to the Project Development Plans or Site Plan Review standards of the RIV Zoning District per 905.04.F.
How long will the process take?(show below)
Conceptual review has a minimum 15-day review period. Any revisions required will extend this process.
Site plan/technical review has a minimum 45-day review period. Any revisions required will extend this process.
What is required for a Stormwater Plan review?(show below)
Stormwater Conceptual Review:
Cover Sheet
Introduction/Executive Summary
Existing Conditions
Site plan and proposed Improvements consistent with Zoning Site Plan Submission
Proposed BMPs and locations
Post-construction stormwater management drainage areas
Proposed volume control offsets, rate control POIs, volume or rate incentives, innovation tracks, performance points, or technological incentives
Technical infeasibility determination, if applicable
Conclusion
Appendices
Stormwater Site Plan Review:
Cover Sheet
Overall stormwater management concept
Site conditions, including any environmentally sensitive areas
Stormwater runoff design computations and documentation
Soil erosion and sediment control plan, where applicable, and proof of submission to ACCD
Expected project schedule.
Effect of the project on surrounding properties
Plan and profile drawings of BMPs
Locations of existing and proposed on-lot wastewater facilities and water supply wells, property boundaries, existing and proposed topography, point(s) of interest, utilities, and potential utility conflicts
Justification for use of non-preferred BMPs, if applicable
Proposed volume control offsets, rate control POIs, volume or rate incentives, innovation tracks, performance points, or technological incentives
Technical infeasibility locations, if applicable
Easements, Right-of-Way, Deed Restrictions
Other Permits/Approvals
Operations and Maintenance Program
Infiltration testing and geotechnical testing investigation report
Conclusion
Appendices
How do I start the process?(show below)
Submit S tormwater Permit application through OneStopPGH
Phase I: Conceptual Review – with DCP Environmental Review Staff
Phase II: Site Plan Review – with PLI Plan Review Staff
Stormwater Permit Issuance – Valid for 5 years
Modifications/Re-submissions — Any changes to a submitted Final Stormwater Management Plan require a re-submission and approval.
How do I end the process?(show below)
After you have resolved any issues, a stormwater permit will be issued. A permit holder must work with PLI staff to schedule the required preconstruction, underground, and final inspections.
Zoning and Building Codes(show below)
Title Thirteen – Zoning Code 1301 Stormwater Management
All SWM BMPs shall be installed per the 2015 International Plumbing Code
jasujazumdinski
Additional Information
For questions specific to the City of Pittsburgh, please email Gregory Miller, Senior Environmental Planner: Gregory.Miller@pittsburghpa.gov
Please note that this page summarizes broad issues around stormwater management. Consult the complete Zoning Code and Building Code as necessary for complete information on requirements.
Stormwater Map
Stormwater Design Manual
Stormwater Design Manual Appendices
last updated: 04/24/2025
Back to top
Ready
jasujazumdinski