opens in new tab or window
In This Section
City Planning
Mobility and Infrastructure  - About Mobility and Infrastructure
Maps
Plans
Current DOMI Projects
Transportation Development Review
Right-of-Way Management    - Right-of-Way Procedures Manual
ROW 311 and Code Enforcement
Applicant Guidance
Telecommunications
Small Cell Facilities
Encroachment Permit
Outdoor Dining & Operations Program
Permits, Licenses, and Inspections
Digital Equity In Pittsburgh
Small Business Resources
Public Works
Zoning
Geographic Information Systems, Mapping & Open Data
Procurement
PGH Lab
Sustainability
Telecommunications
A telecommunications provider, or a party that seeks to provide telecommunications services in the City's Rights of Way must obtain a license to do so. Each applicant must provide the following information:
Completed Telecommunications License Application(PDF, 950KB)
Evidence of current, valid General Liability Insurance
Indemnifying the City.
Bond Amount to be determined by the scope of work for which the License is being applied.
"D" size paper CAD detailed drawings (24 inches by 36 inches).
Where and When
All information and documents should be forwarded to the following address:
City of Pittsburgh
Department of Mobility & Infrastructure
City-County Building, Room 215B
414 Grant Street
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15219
Office hours are 7 a.m. to 3 p.m. Monday through Friday.
How to Pay
A check drawn in the name of the applicant (not a contractor or subcontractor) should be made payable to "Treasurer, City of Pittsburgh."
All checks should be sent to the The Department of Mobility & Infrastructure address:
City of Pittsburgh
Department of Mobility & Infrastructure
City-County Building, Room 215B
414 Grant Street
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15219
jasujazumdinski
How Long Will It Take
If all requested items have been included, application review should take no more than approximately two weeks.
Applicants may telephone (412) 255-2517 to inquire about the status of a licensing application.
Required Inspections
Who is required
A telecommunications provider, or a party that seeks to provide telecommunications services in the City's Rights of Way.
When to call
Before, during, and after completion of construction.
Contact Us
Please telephone 412-255-2517 during Department of Mobility & Infrastructure business hours: 7 a.m. to 3 p.m., Monday through Friday for more information.
last updated: 04/23/2025
Back to top
Ready
jasujazumdinski