Skip to main content
opens in new tab or window
In This Section

City Planning
Mobility and Infrastructure  - About Mobility and Infrastructure
Maps
Plans    - Traffic Alerts and Advisories
City Bridges
Bike(+) Plan
City Steps
Mobility
Neighborways
Pedestrian Safety Action Plan
Pedestrian Wayfinding Kiosk Project
2070 Mobility Vision Plan
Strip District Mobility Plan
The Homewood Mobility Plan

Current DOMI Projects
Transportation Development Review
Right-of-Way Management
Permits, Licenses, and Inspections
Digital Equity In Pittsburgh
Small Business Resources
Public Works
Zoning
Geographic Information Systems, Mapping &amp; Open Data
Procurement
PGH Lab
Sustainability

The Homewood Mobility Plan

Homewood Mobility Plan(PDF, 18MB)
Homewood Safety Study Memo(PDF, 9MB)

In 2021, the City of Pittsburgh Department of Mobility and Infrastructure (DOMI) led a planning process to identify mobility improvements needed for automobile, bicycle, pedestrian, and transit accessibility throughout the Homewood neighborhoods. This plan is the first step towards achieving the mobility goals outlined in the 2020 Homewood Comprehensive Community Plan (HCCP). The HCCP established a vision for the future where
Homewood will be an African-American cultural destination where people choose to live, work, worship, and visit. It will be safe, green, healthy, and innovative. It will have quality schools. It will be a place that protects long-term and low-income residents and equips them to be engaged and informed.
The 2020 HCCP identified goals for creating consistent sidewalks compliant with the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA), ensuring Homewood residents have access to high-quality transit, and creating safe routes to school. To address these goals, this study provides an in-depth analysis of existing conditions, including a neighborhood-wide sidewalk and ramp inventory, crash analysis, in-person neighborhood safety audits of three corridors, transit service and ridership analysis, and future potential bicycle corridors for the neighborhood. The findings from this analyses are then used to identify locations and types of mobility improvements and to prioritize those improvements based on community goals and input. These projects were then assigned a priority level for implementation based on a how they address key mobility issues and concerns in the neighborhood. A summary map of the proposed projects by project type at a corridor level is shown below. All projects identified and proposed within the recommendations will require further evaluation and assessment.

Fig 01: In person Community engagement.
Event- Homewood community Health &amp; Wellness summit - August 14th, 2021.
jasujazumdinski
Proposed Project Types
Safety Improvements

Speed mitigation.
Crash mitigation.
ADA ramp upgrades.

Connectivity Improvements

Sidewalk reconstruction.
Access improvements.
Future bicycle network identifications.

Transit Improvements

Route improvements.
Bus stop access and amenities improvement.

The planning process was designed to be bottom-up and community-driven to ensure the recommendations best meet the needs of the neighborhood. Once implemented, the improvements identified in the study project will improve safety and provide critical connections to important local destinations throughout Homewood and improved access to public transit.

More Information and Current Updates on the Implementation Phase
last updated: 04/23/2025
Back to top
Ready
jasujazumdinski