opens in new tab or window
In This Section
City Planning
Mobility and Infrastructure
Permits, Licenses, and Inspections  - Applications & Forms
OneStopPGH
Permits
Licenses
Bulletins
Community Resources
Code Enforcement
Condemned Buildings
PLI Fees
Building Codes
Appeals
PLI Contacts    - Other Agency Coordination
Announcements
Registrations
Digital Equity In Pittsburgh
Small Business Resources
Public Works
Zoning
Geographic Information Systems, Mapping & Open Data
Procurement
PGH Lab
Sustainability
PLI Contacts
PLI’s normal customer service hours are Monday to Friday from 9 am to 3 pm. We staff our general phone line, 412-255-2175, and chat during these hours. Visit the OneStopPGH webpage for additional customer service and public resource information. Please see below for our leadership and administrative team’s contact information.
Directors
Dave Green
Director, Building Code Official
412-709-4834
david.green@pittsburghpa.gov
Amanda Lindner
Executive Assistant
412-738-6465
amanda.lindner@pittsburghpa.gov
Monica Bender
Licensing & Administration Assistant Director, Licensing Officer
412-565-9929
monica.bender@pittsburghpa.gov
Alyssa Ballein
Construction Assistant Director
412-518-5403
alyssa.ballein@pittsburghpa.gov
Robert Columbus
Code Enforcement Assistant Director, Demolition Manager
412-660-1024
robert.columbus@pittsburghpa.gov
Neil Grbach
Operations System Assistant Director
412-398-0275
neil.grbach@pittsburghpa.gov
If you are not sure who to contact or want to contact all PLI directors, please use this shared email address plidirectors@pittsburghpa.gov.
PLI Supervisor/Admin Team
Please contact an individual supervisor for inquiries about their assigned staff or assigned geographic areas (in the case of Inspection Supervisors). We have posted supervisor staff below - if you are not sure who to contact use one or more of the shared email addresses identified below.
jasujazumdinski
Construction Division
The Construction Division is responsible for ensuring that buildings, structures, and their occupancy are designed, constructed, and/or renovated safely and with proper permits. This division:
Reviews development design and approves permits to authorize development.
Inspects development installations and enforces development regulations (shares this role with the Code Enforcement Division).
Issues Certificates of Occupancy to document legal use of buildings and property.
Responds to citizen 311 complaints (shares this role with the Code Enforcement Division).
Construction Inspection Supervisors
Construction Inspection Supervisors manage the construction inspection staff. Construction Inspectors are assigned to development applications and 311 complaints based on the ward of the subject property. This document identifies the inspector's contact info, their assigned to ward(s), and supervisor:
List of construction inspectors, ward assignments, and supervisors(PDF, 165KB)
Bill Kelley
412-925-9707
william.kelley@pittsburghpa.gov
Derek Lambert
412-495-2754
derek.lambert@pittsburghpa.gov
Farren Mason
412-328-3335
farren.mason@pittsburghpa.gov
Gina Perry
412-910-0326
gina.perry@pittsburghpa.gov
Please use this shared email address to contact all Construction Inspection Supervisors pliconstructionsupervisors@pittsburghpa.gov.
Permitting Supervisors
Permitting Supervisors manage the construction review staff.
Joshua Evans
412-495-2970
joshua.evans@pittsburghpa.gov
Joe Leopold
412-523-9299
joseph.leopold@pittsburghpa.gov
Kurt Schaefers
412-354-7917
kurt.schaefers@pittsburghpa.gov
Please use this shared email to contact all Permitting Supervisors plipermittingsupervisors@pittsburghpa.gov.
Code Enforcement Division
The Code Enforcement Division is responsible for ensuring that owners properly maintain existing property, buildings, and associated systems. This division:
Enforces property maintenance and fire code regulations.
Condemns unsafe buildings, property, and equipment.
Enforces business licensing codes.
Inspects development installations and enforces development regulations (shares this role with Construction Division).
Responds to citizen 311 complaints (shares this role with Construction Division).
Contracts city-funded demolition of condemned buildings to remediate blight.
Code Enforcement Supervisors
Code Enforcement Supervisors manage the Code Enforcement Inspectors. Code Enforcement Inspectors are assigned to development applications and 311 complaints based on the ward of the subject property. This document identifies the inspector’s contact info, their assigned to ward(s), and supervisor:
List of Code Enforcement inspectors, ward assignments, and supervisors(PDF, 458KB)
Anthony Asciolla
412-740-8585
anthony.asciolla@pittsburghpa.gov
Andrew Brown
412-935-6034
andrew.brown@pittsburghpa.gov
Christa Matthews
412-228-9355
christa.matthews@pittsburghpa.gov
jasujazumdinski
Licensing and Administrative Division
The licensing and administrative division performs PLI’s administrative and customer service functions. This division:
Administers PLI business and trade licenses under the Licensing Officer.
Intakes and issues development applications (PLI and DCP).
Manages OneStopPGH system and PLI technology improvements.
Manages employee certification, training, and professional development.
Performs PLI finances, accounting, and personnel functions.
Manages the retention and release of PLI’s records.
Application Technician Team
The Application Technicians intake and issue all PLI business licenses, trade licenses, and development applications as well as provide customer service via chat and general phone line. Please use this shared email to contact all Application Technicians pliapptech@pittsburghpa.gov
OneStopPGH Customer Service Manager
The OneStopPGH Customer Service Manager supervises the PLI application technicians and manages customer service at the OneStopPGH counter.
Gabrielle Johnston
412-709-8967
gabrielle.johnston@pittsburghpa.gov
Lead Technicians
The lead technicians directly support the Application Technician team, assist in resolving escalated customer inquiries, and coordinate with other PLI teams.
Amanda Lee
412-255-2175
amanda.lee@pittsburghpa.gov
Craig Sippel
412-255-2175
craig.sippel@pittsburghpa.gov
Administrative Team
Code Training & Development Supervisor
The Code Training & Development Supervisor manages employee certification, training, and professional development.
William Sperry
412-328-5582
william.sperry@pittsburghpa.gov
Department Business Administrator
The Department Business Administrator manages PLI finances, accounting, and personnel functions.
Autumn Barszczowski
412-565-9023
autumn.barszczowski@pittsburghpa.gov
Administrator 2
The Administrator 2 leads the records team that responds to requests for PLI records or documents.
Sophia Lewis
sophia.lewis@pittsburghpa.gov
jasujazumdinski
Systems Operations Division
This division:
Aligns technology and systems to meet the operational needs of the other PLI divisions.
Manages projects to update or enhance PLI’s development, license, enforcement, record management, finance, and accounting systems.
Streamlines processes to meet customer demands and maximize revenue.
Analyzes operational data and customer needs to support PLI leadership decision making.
Publishes data to foster public transparency of PLI operations.
Collaborates and coordinates on a cross-agency basis to make holistic improvements to the OneStopPGH system.
Neil Grbach
Operations Systems Assistant Director
412-398-0275
neil.grbach@pittsburghpa.gov
last updated: 09/29/2025
Back to top
Ready
jasujazumdinski