opens in new tab or window
In This Section
Parks
Pools  - Oliver Bath House
Outdoor Pools
Spray Parks
Pool Fees
Rules
Citiparks Lifeguard
Events
Park Facilities
Special Events
Film & Event Management
Park Permits
About Parks
Rules
Outdoor Pool Rules
Everyone entering the facility must present a pool pass or pay daily admission even if you do not plan to swim. No re-entry without proof of admission.
Children under the age of 6 must be supervised by an adult 16 years or older at all times.
Patrons should inform the aquatic staff of any life threatening medical conditions.
No person with signs of illness or disease, or with skin rashes, or sores may enter a bathing place except when certified by a physician not to have a disease in a communicable stage. (ACHD, Article IX)
Appropriate swim attire is required in the pool and on the deck area. No street clothes, jeans, cargos, sweats, socks, etc., are permitted in the pool. Patrons wearing diapers must wear a swim diaper.
All patrons must shower before entering the pool.
Inflatables and flotation devices are prohibited. Only U.S. Coastguard approved lifejackets allowed.
Toys, noodles, and aquatic exercise equipment may be permitted at the discretion of the lifeguards.
Chairs and strollers must be kept at a minimum of 10 feet away from the pool side.
Food and drinks are permitted in designated areas. Grills and glass containers as prohibited.
No drugs, alcohol, smoking, vaping, electronic cigarettes, or chewing tobacco.
No weapons, fighting, profanity, or abusive language.
No loud music. Personal music devices with earphones only.
Non-swimmers must remain in shallow water no deeper than chest level.
Patrons in deep water may be subject to a deep test. Lifeguards reserve the right to retest at any time.
No diving in the shallow water.
No spins, flips, or backward entries into the water.
No running, horseplay, head or neck grabbing, pushing, throwing, or sitting on shoulders.
No underwater distance swimming or prolonged breath holding.
Please refrain from talking to lifeguards while in the chair. Safety is our first priority.
When thunder and/or lightning is present, evacuate the pool and deck area immediately. Pool will remain closed until 30 minutes after the last sign of thunder or lightning.
Citiparks is not responsible for lost, stolen, or damaged property.
Aquatic staff may alter or modify any rule to ensure patron safety.
Violations of any rule or failure to follow instruction of the aquatic staff may result in suspension or loss of pool privileges.
Please see the Head Lifeguard with any questions or concerns.
If further assistance is needed, please contact the Aquatics Office at 412-323-7928 or aquatics@pittsburghpa.gov.
jasujazumdinski
Spray Park Rules
Children under the age of 6 must have adult supervision at all times.
Food and drinks are only permitted in designated areas.
Glass containers and grills are prohibited.
Animals are not permitted.
No bicycles, skateboards, roller blades, etc.
No toys or water balloons.
No running, pushing or rough play.
No climbing, hanging, swinging or sitting on the spray features.
No drugs, alcohol, smoking, vaping, electronic cigarettes, or chewing tobacco.
No weapons, fighting, profanity, or abusive language.
When thunder and/or lightning is present, evacuate the splash pad immediately and seek shelter. Patrons must wait 30 minutes after the last sign of thunder or lightning before returning.
Spray Park cannot be reserved for private parties or groups.
Citiparks is not responsible for lost, stolen, or damaged property.
Vandals will be prosecuted.
If further assistance is needed, please contact the Aquatics Office at 412-323-7928 or aquatics@pittsburghpa.gov
For additional information on Spray Parks, please call the Aquatics Office: 412-323-7928
last updated: 06/16/2025
Back to top
Ready
jasujazumdinski