Skip to main content
opens in new tab or window
In This Section

City Planning  - About City Planning
City Planning Meeting Calendar
City Planning Public Notices
Commissions and Boards
Historic Preservation Program
Public Art Program
Neighborhood Planning
Master &amp; Neighborhood Plans
City Planning Projects
City Planning Programs
Development Review Process Guides
Mobility and Infrastructure
Permits, Licenses, and Inspections
Digital Equity In Pittsburgh
Small Business Resources
Public Works
Zoning
Geographic Information Systems, Mapping &amp; Open Data
Procurement
PGH Lab
Sustainability

Tenants’ Rights
These links change page section content below

Overview
Housing Justice Peer Network
Anti-Displacement Policy
Pittsburgh United and Pittsburgh Housing Justice Table
Pittsburgh Human Rights City Alliance
Right to Counsel

1. Overview
The City of Pittsburgh, Department of City Planning and its partners recognize that renters want housing stability in addition to affordability. Housing insecurity is a very serious issue that many residents face, and can result from a variety of factors. Whether you are a renter in need of assistance, an advocate looking to expand your network, or a non-profit looking for funding, this section may help you find the resources that you need.
Know your rights - Landlord - Tenant Law in Allegheny County
The University of Pittsburgh’s School of Law provides information on various housing terms that are relevant in negotiating residential leases and resolving residential rental disputes within Allegheny County. To learn more about basic tenant rights, visit the link above.
Know your rights - Housing Equality Center of Pennsylvania
The Housing Equality Center of Pennsylvania aims to improve the lives of renters in Pennsylvania by educating others about state and federal Fair Housing laws and Pennsylvania Landlord Tenant Law. The link above provides knowledge, particularly as it pertains to renting private residential property, about fair housing, eviction, repairs, and security deposits.
jasujazumdinski
2. Housing Justice Peer Network
Representatives from the Allegheny County Public Defender's Office, 1Hood Media, the Community Justice Project, and City of Pittsburgh Department of City Planning are working together as part of an 8-city cohort with the Housing Justice Peer Network. The Housing Justice Peer Network is a joint initiative between the NYU Furman Center's Housing Solutions Lab and the Center for Justice Innovation. The purpose of the Network is to provide space for local governments, advocates, elements of the criminal justice system, and justice-involved individuals to discuss housing issues facing justice-involved individuals. The end goal of the 18-month program is for Network participants to develop policies that address housing insecurity within their jurisdictions for justice-involved individuals.
There are efforts and resources aimed at addressing evictions as well as reentry programs for people leaving the criminal justice system. The group from the City of Pittsburgh and Allegheny County Public Defender's Office have identified and plan on exploring ways to assist currently incarcerated individuals and their families in maintaining their housing during the period of incarceration.
3. Anti-Displacement Policy
4. Pittsburgh United and Pittsburgh Housing Justice Table
Housing – Pittsburgh United
Pittsburgh United is a coalition of organizations that is constantly fighting for progressive policy change that ensures communities are sustainable, to improve standards for low-wage workers, and to make economic development and investment work for community benefit.
Their Pittsburgh Housing Justice Table specifically focuses on making sure that everyone has access to stable, safe, decent housing. They believe housing is one of the most fundamental human rights, and aim to bring organizations along with independent citizens together in advancing this interest. The table meets every 4th Monday of the month.
To learn more about their focuses on rent relief, affordable housing, and equitable development, as well as how to get involved, the link above is a good place to get started.
jasujazumdinski
5. Pittsburgh Human Rights City Alliance
Pittsburgh Human Rights City Alliance - Pittsburgh Human Rights City Alliance
The Pittsburgh Human Rights City Alliance works to bring diverse groups around the city together to realize a common goal of making Pittsburgh a model human rights city. They boast over 130 advocacy organizations joined together. The alliance seeks to monitor the state of human rights in Pittsburgh and make sure that the 2011 proclamation declaring Pittsburgh a “human rights city” is fully realized.
To learn more as a resident or a group about how to get involved or current work happening, visit the link above.
6. Right to Counsel
Because housing related cases are classified as civil, there is no right to automatic legal representation. This means that in the case of a housing related dispute, defendants are not automatically assigned a public defender. The right to counsel only applies to criminal cases. In civil cases, counsel is allowed but not automatically provided by the court system.
However, there are legal resources that can assist tenants in housing disputes. As of 2024, a statewide right-to-counsel program has been launched. $2.5 million has been allocated and will be divided among legal aid programs and organizations around the state.
URA Legal Assistance Program
As of February 2025, a bill proposed by Councilwoman Deb Gross was passed that allows for the Mayor and the Director of the Office of Management and Budget to enter into a singular agreement or more with the URA in which the cost cannot amount to more than $2 million in a year.
Pennsylvania State: Automatic Sealing of Eviction Records
Eviction filings remain on renters' permanent records, even if a renter is able to challenge the eviction and win. Governor Josh Shapiro proposes to automatically seal eviction records of Pennsylvania residents who were never legally evicted.
last updated: 07/02/2025
Back to top
Ready
jasujazumdinski