Skip to main content
opens in new tab or window
Executive Order Committing City to Paris Climate Accords
Published on June 02, 2017
Pittsburgh, PA (June 2, 2017) Mayor William Peduto today issued an Executive Order to further promote climate control initiatives, in the wake of President Trump&amp;'s disastrous decision to pull the United States out of the Paris Climate Accords of 2015.
The Order describes the long history of the City's commitment to climate change initiatives, and lays out more work Pittsburgh will be doing through 2030.
For decades Pittsburgh has been rebuilding its economy based on hopes for our people and our future, not on outdated fantasies about our past. The City and its many partners will continue to do the same, despite the President's imprudent announcements yesterday, Mayor Peduto said.
Among many initiatives, the Order commits the City to:

Working with the National Climate Action Agenda and 81 other cities to undertake additional actions to meet the 1.5 degrees Celsius target.
Continue working on 2030 climate objectives, including achieving 100 Percent Renewable Electricity Consumption for Municipal Operations; a citywide Zero Waste Initiative to divert percent of materials from land fills; fifty percent energy consumption reduction city wide Development of a fossil fuel ;free fleet.
The continued commitment to quantifying the impact of the City works in reducing Greenhouse Gas Emissions and building a more sustainable City, through the completion of the Pittsburgh Climate Action Plan 3.0.
Advancing Carbon Neutrality objectives within the City; adopting energy efficiency standards for building electrifying transportation system with renewable energy sources supporting weatherization and maintenance of Pittsburgh housing stock to help elderly and vulnerable populations; and protecting and regenerating of our natural environment through land conservation, park preservation and urban agriculture.

The Order follows the Mayor's denunciation Thursday of President Trump's decision to pull the United States out of the 195-nation climate agreement reached in Paris in 2015, which Mayor Peduto attended and supported.
A copy of the Executive Order(PDF, 102KB) available.
Tagged as:

Executive Orders

Back to top
Ready
jasujazumdinski