opens in new tab or window
In This Section
Mayor
City Controller
City Council
Boards, Authorities, Commissions
Legal Services
Jobs
Finance & Budget  - Campaign Finances
Dog Licenses
Fee Schedule
Management & Budget    - About Office of Management and Budget
Budgets and Reports
Procurement
Budget Engagement
Grants Office
Fleet Operations
OMB Contacts
Community Development
New Business Registration
Pilot Home Buying Program
Real Estate
Taxes
Contacts & Information
Community Development Block Grant (CDBG)
The Community Development Block Grant program, abbreviated to CDBG, is funding from the Federal Government that goes to local governments like the City of Pittsburgh. Congress allocates CDBG funds from the federal budget, and the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) manages the program nationally. CDBG funds must be used to benefit people with low to moderate incomes.
The Community Development Division is responsible for the administration of the CDBG program for the City of Pittsburgh. Serving as a catalyst for development in the City's neighborhoods, this program distributes grants for a wide range of projects which address the housing, economic, and human service needs of low and moderate income residents and neighborhoods. The City uses CDBG funds for general public improvement projects such as sidewalk repairs and demolishing vacant buildings. Funds are also awarded to local nonprofit organizations as Public Service Grants or Neighborhood Economic Development Grants.
HUD has a library of resources available on their Explore CDBG page, designed to help community develpment professionals leverage grant funds effectively. For a deeper dive in the regulations that the City of Pittsburgh must follow you can view HUD's CDBG Entitlement Program Eligibility Requirements.
To receive Community Development Division mailings, applications, and notices,sign up for our mailing list sign up for our mailing list!
*Construction, Improvements, and Labor Compliance*(show below)
Community Development Block Grants funds are also used to make improvements and to construct public facilities:
Water and sewer facilities
Streets
Neighborhood centers
Recreational improvements.
The Community Development Administration Department is responsible for oversight of federal labor laws and regulations.
For Labor Compliance issues and questions related to construction and improvements, please contact: Kelly Russell at kelly.russell@pittsburghpa.gov or 412-255-2667.
last updated: 04/22/2025
Back to top
Ready
jasujazumdinski