Skip to main content
opens in new tab or window
In This Section

Mayor
City Controller
City Council  - Districts    - Bobby Wilson, District 1
Theresa Kail-Smith, District 2
Bob Charland, District 3
Anthony Coghill, District 4
Barb Warwick, District 5
R. Daniel Lavelle, District 6
Deb Gross, District 7
Erika Strassburger, District 8
Khari Mosley, District 9

Clerk's Office
Neighborhoods &amp; Wards
Legislative Information
Council Budget Office
City Council Contacts
Boards, Authorities, Commissions
Legal Services
Jobs
Finance &amp; Budget
Contacts &amp; Information

Councilman Khari Mosley

Councilman Khari Mosley has over two decades of experience advancing progressive values and electing transformational leaders to public office. In Pennsylvania and around the country, he has mobilized tens of thousands of people to participate in the democratic process. His expertise includes civic engagement strategies, environmental justice policy, workforce development programming, green economic development, infrastructure resiliency policy, and clean energy.
He has helped pass environmental policy at the state level, designed one of the Pittsburgh region’s most successful workforce development programs, and helped lead the campaign that established the city’s first-ever community benefits agreement in the Hill District. In 2016, he started Sojourner Group LLC., a political consulting and public affairs firm.
Khari Mosley is the former Political Director for 1Hood Media, a Pittsburgh-based non-profit focusing on arts, education, and social justice. He also served as the director of the group’s sister organization 1Hood Power, an advocacy group working on protecting voting rights, reforming the criminal justice system, and engaging new voters to participate in the civic process.
He also served as PA state director for the BlueGreen Alliance, a coalition of our country’s largest labor unions and environmental organizations. At BGA, he led efforts to pass PA Senate Bill 234, a piece of legislation that created incentives for commercial property owners across the state to invest in energy efficiency improvements. In addition, Mr. Mosley spearheaded efforts that established the bi-partisan BlueGreen Caucus in the PA General Assembly promoting policy initiatives that advanced environmental and labor interests across PA.
Councilman Mosley also served as director of green economy initiatives for G-TECH Strategies, now known as Grounded. At G-TECH, he established successful green economic development pilot programs and demonstration projects through regional collaboration, policy initiatives, workforce development programs, community-based initiatives, and small business engagement. Khari also assisted in developing several critical regional green-collar career pathway initiatives, including establishing the region’s first Green Jobs Advisory Board.
Khari also served as national political director for the League of Young Voters and the League of Young Voters Education Fund. In that role, he managed the organization’s voter engagement and “get out to vote” programs in a dozen states. In 2008, Mr. Mosley served as Campaigns Director for Pittsburgh United.
Early in this career, Khari worked in local government under the following elected officials: former City Councilman Sala Udin, former City Councilman Bill Peduto, and former State Representative Jake Wheatley. At that time he also served as the Democratic chairman of Pittsburgh’s 22nd Ward.
Khari has been a guest political analyst on numerous media outlets, including the Pittsburgh Cable News Channel (PCNC), the Pennsylvania Cable Network (PNC), Pittsburgh’s CBS affiliate KDKA, PBS’s Newshour, NPR’s This American Life, The Roland Martin Show, Pittsburgh’s KQV-Radio, Pittsburgh’s KDKA Radio/TV, Pittsburgh’s WAMO-FM, WESA-FM among other media appearances.
He has received numerous awards for his civic engagement work from Pittsburgh Magazine, the League of Women Voters, A. Philip Randolph Institute, former Pennsylvania Governor Ed Rendell, Penn Future, and the New Pittsburgh Courier, among others.
Khari attended the Indiana University of PA, where he studied political science. He lives in the North Point Breeze section of Pittsburgh with his wife, Chelsa Wagner, an Allegheny County Common Pleas Judge, and their two sons, Thaddeus and Isaiah.
last updated: 07/10/2025
Back to top
Ready
jasujazumdinski