Skip to main content
opens in new tab or window
In This Section

City Planning
Mobility and Infrastructure
Permits, Licenses, and Inspections
Digital Equity In Pittsburgh
Small Business Resources
Public Works
Zoning  - Zoning FAQ
Planning Application and Process
Planning Reviews, Public Notices and Public Hearings    - Site Plan Review
Site Plan Requirements
Certificate of Occupancy
Administrator Exception
Design Review
Environmental Review
Construction Management Plans

Housing
Geographic Information Systems, Mapping &amp; Open Data
Procurement
PGH Lab
Sustainability

Planning Reviews, Public Notices and Public Hearings
Applications submitted to the Department of City Planning for review may require Zoning Review and/or one or more of the Planning reviews, public notices and/or public hearings listed below depending on the location and scope of work. Please note that this list is not exhaustive, but includes the most common components.
Zoning Review Process
Zoning Review is the overarching review for most Zoning Development Review applications. There are three levels of Zoning Review: Basic Zoning Review, Site Plan Review, and Zoning Review with Planning Commission. The level of review applicable for any given project will depend on the location and scope of work for that project. Below is a general overview of the three levels of Zoning Review.
In some cases, the Zoning Review will be contingent upon the successful completion of one or more additional reviews, posted notices and/or public hearings administered or coordinated by the Department of City Planning. These additional components also depend on the location and scope of work.
In addition, if the project location does not have a valid address, final approval will not be issued until an Address Request application has been successfully completed and an Address Verification Letter has been issued.
Projects that successfully complete the Zoning Review Process typically receive at least one approval document called the Record of Zoning Approval (ROZA), but may also receive others such as the Certificate of Appropriateness, to submit to the Department of Permits, Licenses, and Inspections along with any other required documentation in order to apply for the appropriate permits issued by that department.
All development review projects, including signs, require a Zoning and Development Review Application, which may be submitted through the OneStopPGH online portal. Most applications filed online require a filing fee, paid via credit card or e-check. (Please note a service charge will apply). Hard copy applications and checks may still be mailed or dropped off at the OneStopPGH Counter, 412 Boulevard of the Allies, Pittsburgh, PA 15219, open daily from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m.
jasujazumdinski
The Three Levels of Zoning Review
Basic Zoning Review

Typically small projects such as:

Chicken coops.

Most single-family dwellings in Residential Zoning Districts (including new construction, additions, renovations and/or accessory structures and uses)
Signs (excluding High Wall and Public Destination Facility signs)
Exterior HVAC equipment or generators
Some non-residential change of use with no exterior renovations
Ground mounted solar panels
Sidewalk cafes
The Basic Zoning Review fee applies (see the Fee Schedule for details). The Sign fee may also apply.
Use Survey Requirements website to determine if the scope of work requires a professionally stamped plan.

Site Plan Review

Typically mid-sized projects and projects in environmentally sensitive areas such as:

Single family dwellings in the P (Parks) or H (Hillside) Zoning Districts (including new construction, additions, some renovations and/or some accessory structures and uses)

Multi-family dwellings (including new construction, additions and some renovations)
Non-residential and some residential projects in neighborhood business districts (including new construction, exterior renovations and change of use)
Parking lots
The Site Plan Review fee applies (see the Fee Schedule for details).
See the Site Plan Review site for details.

Planning Commission Review

Typically large projects and projects in high visibility areas such as:

New construction, additions and significant exterior renovations in the GT (Golden Triangle), OPR (Oakland Public Realm), GPR (Grandview Public Realm), UPR (Uptown Public Realm), EMI (Educational/Medical Institution), RIV (Riverfront), and SP (Specially Planned) Zoning Districts and the Baum-Centre Overlay

High Wall signs
Public Destination Facility signs
Any development impacting a natural steep slope (25% grade or more)
All Project Development Plans (PDPs) and Final Land Development Plans (FLDPs)
The Planning Commission review, hearing and notice fees apply (see the Fee Schedule for details).
See Planning Commission website for more details and requirements.

jasujazumdinski
Other Reviews

CMP (Construction Management Plan) Review
Design Review
Historic Staff Review
Floodplain Review
Geotechnical Review
Stormwater Management Review
Transportation Review (reviewed by the Department of Mobility and Infrastructure)
Administrator Exception
Art Commission Review
Historic Commission Review
Planning Commission
Zoning Board of Adjustment

last updated: 04/24/2025
Back to top
Ready
jasujazumdinski