Skip to main content
opens in new tab or window
Commissions and Boards
These links change page section content below

Overview
Contextual Design Advisory Panel (CDAP)
Historic Review Commission (HRC)
Naming Commission
Planning Commission (PC)
Public Art &amp; Civic Design Commission (PACD)
Zoning Board of Adjustment (ZBA)

1. Overview
Learn more about City Planning's Boards, Commissions, and Panels
The Department of City Planning (DCP) facilitates a number of Boards, Commissions, Panels, and Development Activities Meetings (DAMs) which review zoning variances and elements of development, design, public art, and historic preservation.
For additional information on a Board, Commission, or Panel, such as appointed members or past meeting minutes, please choose from the above table of contents or navigate through sections at the bottom of this page.
jasujazumdinski
2. Contextual Design Advisory Panel (CDAP)
CDAP meets every other Tuesday, alternating with Planning Commission
The Contextual Design Advisory Panel (CDAP) is comprised of eight members with expertise in the physical development of the City. The panel's mission is to promote quality of life in the City of Pittsburgh. CDAP achieves its mission through professional, voluntary design assistance to maximize the economic, civic, contextual, and aesthetic value of new development projects impacting the public realm. To fulfill this mission, CDAP advises the Department of City Planning by reviewing and providing design guidance on selected, higher profile projects throughout the City.
CDAP is an advisory panel, not a commission. Together with staff design review, the panel works to resolve design issues through professional peer critique before a Commission conducts its review. This frees the the Commission to focus on its responsibility of assuring that new developments are consistent with the overall planning objectives of the City. Some examples of these core considerations are:

The extent to which each development proposal addresses successful design, public space enhancement, context sensitivity and sustainable urbanism.
Ensuring that projects feature well designed buildings and landscapes that engage both users and the streetscape. Buildings should also make appropriate connections to adjacent sites and to the larger neighborhood.
The use of sustainable building materials and designs which consider the longer-term impact and use of a single project.

CDAP Members(show below)
Contextual Design Advisory Panel Members

Eric Booth, AIA
Bruce Chan
Ryan Indovina, RA, LEED AP
Greg LaForest, AIA, LEED AP
Cassandra Osterman, AIA
Peter Quintanilla
Bob Reppe
Claudia Saladin, ASLA, LEED AP

CDAP's Role in City Planning Design Review Process(show below)
Design review is a collaborative process between City Planning and project's design team. Staff Design Review is the initial design review phase using information submitted by the applicant. City Planning staff develop a set of Urban Design Targets, which are tailored to the development proposal, the unique site conditions, and the neighborhood and context of the development. Staff work with the applicant to address the Urban Design Targets and to satisfy design-related zoning requirements.
During the initial Staff Design Review phase, City Planning staff will recommend projects for review by CDAP. CDAP review is voluntary, but highly recommended for some projects. The applicant will update the design to address the Urban Design Targets and incorporate the staff’s comments, in preparation for the CDAP meeting. At the meeting, the project representative presents and discusses the project, surrounding context, and design concepts. CDAP members ask questions and make recommendations to the project representative.
Projects Reviewed by CDAP(show below)
Projects that CDAP may review range from building additions to multi-parcel developments. Staff evaluates each project and its surrounding context and determines whether CDAP review would be beneficial. This determination will be made early in the review process. The criteria considered include the size of the project, complexity of the design context, and impact on the public realm. Generally, CDAP reviews:

Project Development Plans
Final Land Development Plans
Projects undergoing Site Plan Review

CDAP Meeting Material(show below)

Revisions to any items previously submitted for Design Review
Site plan showing proposed project and surrounding context
Landscape plan showing surrounding context and proposed planting list
Building elevations showing surrounding context and proposed materials
When applicable, building sections showing site context
Perspective views and renderings showing project in surrounding context
Perspective views and renderings showing pedestrian context and sidewalk-level views
Items that address Staff Design Review comments and Urban Design Targets

Meeting Format(show below)
The most common format used for CDAP meetings follows the below outline. City Planning staff will introduce the Panel, provide a brief project introduction, and then refer to the project team for a presentation. The presentation should include a project outline and discuss context and design-related concepts and goals. The presentation should focus on design review and does not need to discuss Zoning or DOMI related reviews unless related to the overall design goals.

Project introduction by City Planning staff (5 minutes)
Project presentation by project representative (10-15 minutes)
General Panel discussion (30-40 minutes)

After the CDAP meeting, City Planning staff sends a summary of the comments to the applicant. The applicant follows up with staff and responds to the comments by updating the design accordingly. City Planning staff will summarize the Design Review, including comments from CDAP and subsequent revisions, to convey design feedback and guidance to the Planning Commission, as the final approval determines.
In some situations, projects will be reviewed twice by CDAP. At the second meeting, the project representative presents changes since the last meeting and provides additional visuals on the project as the design has developed. The second meeting may not be necessary for projects that meet the design objectives in the first full CDAP meeting.
Workshops(show below)
In addition to the regularly scheduled CDAP meetings, CDAP also holds workshops. Less like a formal review, a workshop is a collaborative meeting. The project representative brings their project goals and current design to the panel members who provide design guidance. CDAP can help the project representative meet their objectives while helping to create successful urban spaces.
To contact CDAP via email, please email pacd@pittsburghpa.gov
CDAP Rules and Procedures
jasujazumdinski
3. Historic Review Commission (HRC)
The Historic Review Commission meets on the first Wednesday of each month. Meetings starts at 1:00 PM.
The Historic Review Commission (HRC) provides guidance to those seeking to conduct exterior work on historic buildings in the city. The Historic Review Commission is comprised of seven members appointed by the Mayor. The membership of the commission must include an architect, a preservationist, a realtor, a building inspector, and a planner.
The Historic Review Commission has control over any proposed new construction or demolition within a historic district and exterior work to a historic landmark. The review process begins when an owner decides to work to the building. To start an application, visit City Planning's Historic Preservation page.
HRC Members(show below)
Historic Review Commission Members

Lucia M. Aguirre, Chairperson
Matthew Falcone
Dave Green, Secretary, Director of the Department of Permits, Licenses and Inspections
James Hill
Katie K. Reed, Department of City Planning
Karen Loysen
Richard Snipe

Past Meeting Minutes(show below)
Current year meeting agenda, presentations, and minutes are available on the City Planning Public Notices and Meeting Calendar.
For previous year's meeting presentations, please visit City Planning's YouTube page. You may also order a transcript of a meeting by calling Network Deposition Services at 412-281-7908. Network Deposition Services will charge a fee to access the transcript. Please have the meeting date available.

City Planning YouTube page
City Planning Calendar

|     |     |     |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Year |  | Minutes PDF |
| 2024 |  | Link to Minutes PDF |
| 2023 |  | Link to Minutes PDF |
| 2022 |  | Link to Minutes PDF |
| 2021 |  | Link to Minutes PDF |
| 2020 |  | Link to Minutes PDF |
To receive Commissions and Board agendas via email, please email historicreview@pittsburghpa.gov

Link to Historic Preservation page
Map of Historic Sites and Districts
HRC Rules and Procedures

jasujazumdinski
4. Naming Commission
The Naming Commission meets quarterly and is held virtually.
The Commission on Naming Public Properties creates guidelines and specifications for naming or changing the name of public property or facilities. These guidelines and specifications include:

How to receive requests and recommendations
Provisions for public hearings and meetings
A facility or public property can only be named or renamed for a person after that person has been deceased for at least three years
Naming or renaming a public property or facility for an individual person can only be recommended and approved if that person has been deceased for at least three years

Naming Commission Members

Jamil Bey, Director of City Planning; Chair
Kim Lucas, Director of Mobility and Infrastructure; Secretary
Chris Hornstein, Director, Department of Public Works Facilities; Member
Kathryn Vargas, Director, Parks and Recreation

The Naming Commission completes a report on the property or facility being named or renamed. This report includes the historic, artistic, and cultural background of any facility proposed to be named or renamed. For more information about the Naming Commission, please email City Planning at cityplanning@pittsburghpa.gov.

Naming Commission Application
Naming Commission Legislation

5. Planning Commission (PC)
Planning Commission meets every other Tuesday, with an August recess. Meetings start at 1:00 PM.
The Planning Commission is a nine-member panel appointed by the Mayor for six-year, staggered terms. The Commission is charged with guiding land use and land development within the City. The Planning Commission also makes recommendations to City Council concerning the Zoning Ordinance and zoning maps, and reviews major development, redevelopment proposals, master plans, conditional uses, lot consolidations and subdivisions, and historic nominations.
Planning Commission Members(show below)
Planning Commission Members

LaShawn Burton-Faulk, Chairwoman
Rachel O'Neill, Vice Chairwoman
Jean Holland Dick, Secretary
Dina Blackwell
Steve Mazza
Mel Ngami
Peter Quintanilla
Monica Ruiz
Phillip Wu

Types of Projects Reviewed by Planning Commission(show below)

New Construction and Renovations within seven districts when meeting certain cost and square foot thresholds or site conditions:
Downtown - Golden Triangle
Riverfront
Mixed Use
Public Realm
Planned Development
Baum-Centre Overlay
Steep Slope Overlay
High Wall Signs
Zoning Map and Zoning Code Text Changes
Institutional Master Plans
Lot Consolidations and Subdivisions
Conditional Uses
Historic Nominations
Demolitions in certain districts and based on certain thresholds

Note: Certain projects will only require review at Hearing and Action, no Briefing required. These include High Wall Signs, Exterior Renovations Only, Historic Nominations, Neighborhood Gateway Signs, Single Family Homes, Demolitions, and other development types at Staff and Commission discretion.
Past Meeting Minutes(show below)
Current year meeting agenda, presentations, and minutes are available on the City Planning Public Notices and Meeting Calendar.
For previous year's meeting presentations, please visit City Planning's YouTube page. You may also order a transcript of a meeting by calling Network Deposition Services at 412-281-7908. Network Deposition Services will charge a fee to access the transcript. Please have the meeting date available.

City Planning YouTube page
City Planning Calendar

|     |     |     |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Year |  | Minutes PDF |
| 2024 |  | Link to Minutes PDF(PDF, 2MB) |
| 2023 |  | Link to Minutes PDF(PDF, 3MB) |
| 2022 |  | Link to Minutes PDF(PDF, 2MB) |
| 2021 |  | Link to Minutes PDF(PDF, 5MB) |
| 2020 |  | Link to Minutes PDF(PDF, 7MB) |
To receive Commissions and Board agendas via email, please email planningcommission@pittsburghpa.gov

Planning Commission Process Guide(PDF, 137KB)

jasujazumdinski
6. Public Art &amp; Civic Design Commission (PACD)
The PACD Commission meets on the fourth Wednesday of each month, with a December recess. Meetings start at 2:00 PM.
The City of Pittsburgh’s Public Art &amp; Civic Design Commission empowers the development of art and culture in public spaces and promotes the design of public spaces and civic structures that have a positive impact on the City’s Public Realm. For that purpose, the Commission is authorized to review and approve the aesthetics of the designed environment on or over City-owned property.
The Commission conducts reviews through two Committees:

The Public Art Review Committee reviews and approves the addition, modification, relocation, and removal of items of Public Art in the Public Realm.
The Civic Design Review Committee reviews and approves the design of new structures and designed sites in the Public Realm, or the modification of existing structures and designed sites in the Public Realm.

To receive Commissions and Board agendas via email, please email pacd@pittsburghpa.gov
Public Art &amp; Civic Design Commission Members(show below)
Public Art Committee

Mikael Owunna, Committee Chair/Commission President
Christine Bethea
Anneliese Martinez
Shaunda McDill

Civic Design Committee

Megan Ziegler, Committee Chair/Commission Vice-President
Ali Abdullah
Lisa Carver
Gerrod Winston

Over-the-Counter Review(show below)
Over-The-Counter (OTC) review is conducted by City Planning staff for low-impact projects that meet certain eligibility criteria. Reviews are limited to proposed projects that will have a relatively minimal impact on the public realm. Projects may be eligible for Over-The-Counter approval based on the following criteria:

Replacements: Projects which replace the form or content of existing elements or fixtures in order to repair, improve, or update existing implementations. Replacements may be either of the following:

In Kind: Repair or replacement of existing elements or fixtures with identical products, or products of a similar aesthetic that have been slightly modified due to changes in cost, product availability, or updates.

Content: Changes made to written content or images in order to provide updated information, branding, or imagery which maintain the same overall aesthetic.

Negligible Changes: Projects that will have minimal to no impact on the public realm. Negligible changes may be either of the following:

Low Visibility: Changes or additions that cannot be easily viewed from public property or the right-of-way.

Minor change: Changes or additions that will not affect the general aesthetic of the site, would go unnoticed by a large portion of visitors to the site, or would be assumed by most viewers to be a standard element of City infrastructure.

City Standards: Projects that fit within the City’s established design standards.

Modifications: Changes to the design and/or aesthetic of projects that have previously been approved by the Public Art &amp; Civic Design Commission.

To learn more about Over-the-Counter Review, please download the PACD Commission Manual. Applications for OTC Review are submitted through the PACD Commission Application form.
Past Meeting Minutes(show below)
Current year meeting agenda, presentations, and minutes are available on the City Planning Public Notices and Meeting Calendar.
For previous year's meeting presentations, please visit City Planning's YouTube page. You may also order a transcript of a meeting by calling Network Deposition Services at 412-281-7908. Network Deposition Services will charge a fee to access the transcript. Please have the meeting date available.

City Planning YouTube page
City Planning Calendar

|     |     |     |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Year |  | Minutes PDF |
| 2024 |  | Link to Minutes PDF(PDF, 3MB) |
| 2023 |  | Link to Minutes PDF (PDF, 3MB) |
| 2022 |  | Link to Minutes PDF(PDF, 6MB) |
| 2021 |  | Link to Minutes PDF(PDF, 5MB) |
| 2020 |  | Link to Minutes PDF(PDF, 3MB) |
jasujazumdinski
How to Apply
Public Art &amp; Civic Design Commission applications are submitted on our EngagePGH page. Refer to the Application Guidelines and Application form link on our EngagePGH page:

PACD Commission Application

PACD Commission Manual(PDF, 14MB)

Approved City Standards
The following Citywide standards have been approved by the Commission:

FixIt Bike Repair Station Standards
Greenway Standards
Open Space Signage Standards
Regional Park Signage Standards
Small Cell Aesthetic Guidelines
Swiftmile Charging Stations
Vacant Lot Toolkit

jasujazumdinski
7. Zoning Board of Adjustment (ZBA)
The ZBA meets on the first three Thursdays of each month. Meetings start at 9:00 AM.
The Zoning Board of Adjustment (ZBA) is an adjudicative body that reviews land use proposals in accordance with the requirements of the Zoning Code. The Board reviews such matters in public evidentiary hearings at which the applicant and impacted neighbors may submit evidence or testimony in support of or in opposition to the request.
Zoning Board of Adjustment Members

Lashawn Burton-Falk
Alice Mitinger
John J. Richardson

FAQ
Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ)(show below)
How long does it take for the ZBA to issue a decision?

The ZBA is part of the Zoning Review process. The Zoning Code requires a minimum 21-day posted notice period before a ZBA hearing. Following a hearing, the ZBA has 45 days to issue a decision.
Link to Zoning Review process:

How is a ZBA hearing scheduled?

Applicants to the ZBA are required to file a Zoning and Development Review (ZDR) Application, which is submitted online through the OneStopPGH portal. After the Department of City Planning has reviewed a ZDR application and determined that it requires a ZBA hearing, it will contact the Applicant to schedule a hearing date. For assistance with filing a ZDR application, contact zoning@pittsburghpa.gov. The $400 ZBA fee is assessed in addition to the base zoning review fees. Reference the Fee Schedule for information about other review fees. Fees are non-refundable, regardless of whether a request to the ZBA is approved or denied. Payment must be made prior to the hearing. Fees can be paid via credit card or E-check through the OneStopPGH portal.
Link to OneStopPGH:
Link to Fee Schedule:

What is the public notification process?

ZBA agendas are posted online on City Planning's Public Meetings Calendar and sent via email. To receive agendas via email, please zoningboard@pittsburghpa.gov

How will neighbors be notified?

The Department of City Planning mails notice letters to abutting property owners. The ZBA also strongly recommended that Applicants contact neighbors and local community organizations in advance of a hearing. The Department of City Planning can provide contact information for relevant community groups. If a project is in an area with a Registered Community Organization (RCO), a Development Activities Meeting with the RCO may be required at least 30 days before the ZBA hearing.
Link to RCO page:

What materials are needed at the Hearing?

Applicants must provide:
A site plan which details the proposal
Evidence which justifies the approval of the request, in accordance with the Zoning Code’s approval criteria
Applicants who are not the owner of the property must be prepared to explain and document their authorization to pursue the request
The Applicant must provide sufficient evidence to justify the approval of the request. All parties, Applicants and interested parties can present evidence to the Board. Helpful evidence may include:
Photographs of the property and the surrounding neighborhood
Elevations and detailed drawings of the proposal
Business or operational plans
Evidence that demonstrates how the proposal will affect the surrounding neighborhood
Evidence that demonstrates how the proposal does or does not meet the Zoning Code’s approval criteria

When will the ZBA decision be issued?

After the record for a hearing is closed, the ZBA will issue a decision within 45 days. This decision is sent to the Applicant and all parties who testified at the hearing. Usually, the ZBA will close the record at the end of a hearing. Occasionally, for complex cases, or projects with considerable community opposition, the ZBA will keep the record open after a hearing to allow submittal of additional evidence.

What happens after a decision is issued?

After the ZBA has issued a decision, the Department of City Planning will continue to review the application for compliance with Zoning Code. When the Department of City Planning determines that an application complies with the Zoning Code, it will issue a Record of Zoning Approval (ROZA). Once an applicant receives a ROZA, they may need to apply for additional permits from the Department of Permits, Licenses, and Inspections.

Do ZBA decisions expire?

A ZBA decision expires one year after it is issued. A permit should be obtained and substantial construction or occupancy should begin within one year of approval. If additional time is needed, An Applicant may request a one-year extension by contacting zoningboard@pittsburghpa.gov, and providing a brief explanation of why an extension is needed.

May the ZBA decision be appealed?

Any affected party may appeal a ZBA decision to the Court of Common Pleas of Allegheny County within 30 calendar days of the decision’s issue date. The appeal process starts at the Department of Court Records located on the main floor of the City-County Building, 414 Grant Street. A transcript of the ZBA hearing will be required. Appellants are strongly encouraged to consult an attorney.

Where can transcripts be requested?

You can order a transcript of a ZBA hearing by calling Network Deposition Services at 412-281-7908. Network Deposition Services will charge a fee to access the transcript. Please have the case number and hearing date available.

Are ZBA agendas available?

ZBA agendas are posted online on City Planning's Public Meetings Calendar and sent via email. To receive agendas via email, please zoningboard@pittsburghpa.gov

Are ZBA meetings public?

ZBA meetings are open to the public are held virtually via Zoom or in-person in the Lower Level Hearing Room at 412 Boulevard of the Allies. Community members impacted by requests to the ZBA are encouraged to attend and present testimony. Visit City Planning's Public Meetings Calendar for more information on meeting agenda, times, and Zoom meeting links.

Are past ZBA decisions publicly available?

To request a copy of a ZBA decision, contact zoningboard@pittsburghpa.gov

Current year meeting agenda, presentations, and decisions are available on the City Planning Public Notices and Meeting Calendar.
For previous year's meeting presentations, please visit City Planning's YouTube page. You may also order a transcript of a meeting by calling Network Deposition Services at 412-281-7908. Network Deposition Services will charge a fee to access the transcript. Please have the meeting date available. To request a previous year's ZBA decision, contact zoningboard@pittsburghpa.gov. Please have the ZBA case number for reference.
To receive Commissions and Board agendas via email, please email zoningboard@pittsburghpa.gov
The following links change the page section content above Next2. Contextual Design Advisory Panel (CDAP)
The following links change the page section content above Previous1. Overview
The following links change the page section content above Next3. Historic Review Commission (HRC)
The following links change the page section content above Previous2. Contextual Design Advisory Panel (CDAP)
The following links change the page section content above Next4. Naming Commission
The following links change the page section content above Previous3. Historic Review Commission (HRC)
The following links change the page section content above Next5. Planning Commission (PC)
The following links change the page section content above Previous4. Naming Commission
The following links change the page section content above Next6. Public Art &amp; Civic Design Commission (PACD)
The following links change the page section content above Previous5. Planning Commission (PC)
The following links change the page section content above Next7. Zoning Board of Adjustment (ZBA)
The following links change the page section content above Previous6. Public Art &amp; Civic Design Commission (PACD)
jasujazumdinski
Current meeting agendas
Visit the online calendar or use the search bar at the top of the page to search for a specific OneStopPGH record number, project address, or legislation.

Online Meeting Calendar

Archived meeting material
For 2024 and earlier meetings, visit City Planning's YouTube Channel. For 2024 and earlier meeting minutes, choose the Board or Commission from the table of contents .

City Planning YouTube
pre-2025 HRC archive
pre-2025 PACD Commission archive
pre-2025 PC archive
pre-2025 ZBA archive

Request meeting transcripts
You can order a transcript of a public meeting by calling Network Deposition Services at 412-281-7908. Network Deposition Services will charge a fee to access the transcript. Please have the project name and hearing date available.
last updated: 07/01/2025
Back to top
Ready
jasujazumdinski