Skip to main content
opens in new tab or window
In This Section

City Planning
Mobility and Infrastructure
Permits, Licenses, and Inspections  - Applications &amp; Forms
OneStopPGH
Permits
Licenses    - Business Licenses
Contractor Licenses
Trade Licenses

Bulletins
Community Resources
Code Enforcement
Condemned Buildings
PLI Fees
Building Codes
Appeals
PLI Contacts
Announcements
Registrations
Digital Equity In Pittsburgh
Small Business Resources
Public Works
Zoning
Geographic Information Systems, Mapping &amp; Open Data
Procurement
PGH Lab
Sustainability

Peddler License
The City of Pittsburgh requires an annual Peddler License to sell any type of food, goods, or merchandise by foot. Peddling locations and times are limited by Ordinance, and Peddlers must move at least 250 feet every fifteen minutes. Peddlers must carry all of their products for sale on their person. For a complete list of definitions and requirements, please see Chapter 719: Vendors and Peddlers of the City code and the PLI Licensing Rules and Regulations(PDF, 626KB).

Restrictions
Peddlers may not:

Operate in residential districts between 8pm and 8am, unless allowed through a permitted event.
Operate in commercial districts between 12am - 7am.
Vend in a public place or obstruct the flow of pedestrian or vehicular traffic in the Central Business District (unless allowed by a permitted event).
Operate within 100 feet of an event permitted by the Office of Special Events, unless granted written permission.
Vend in prohibited areas without written permission. Please consult the maps of prohibited vending locations(PDF, 20MB) in the City of Pittsburgh. Vending within the shaded boundaries is not permitted.

jasujazumdinski
Application Process

Prepare Required Documents
Check below for a list of license requirements
For more detailed info, check out the Rules and Regulations(PDF, 626KB)
Complete Application
Fill out an application online!
Submit Documents and Payment
Check the cost of your license application fee here: Current Fee Schedule

License Requirements

City of Pittsburgh tax compliance letter from the City Finance department.
Valid government-issued photo ID of the applicant.

Late Fees
A late fee will be charged the day after your license expires. If your license is not renewed within 30 days of expiration, it is considered lapsed and closed. All business licenses expire a year from the date of issuance.
Resources
L ooking for additional info or clarification on your license requirements?
Check out the Rules and Regulations(PDF, 626KB)
How do I get a tax certification letter?
Call or email the Department of Finance
last updated: 04/24/2025
Back to top
Ready
jasujazumdinski