Skip to main content
opens in new tab or window
In This Section

City Planning
Mobility and Infrastructure
Permits, Licenses, and Inspections  - Applications &amp; Forms
OneStopPGH
Permits
Licenses    - Business Licenses
Contractor Licenses
Trade Licenses

Bulletins
Community Resources
Code Enforcement
Condemned Buildings
PLI Fees
Building Codes
Appeals
PLI Contacts
Announcements
Registrations
Digital Equity In Pittsburgh
Small Business Resources
Public Works
Zoning
Geographic Information Systems, Mapping &amp; Open Data
Procurement
PGH Lab
Sustainability

Sign Contractor License
The City of Pittsburgh requires who erects, alters, repairs, and/or maintains ground signs, wall signs, projecting signs, roof signs, post signs, or similar signs must obtain a Sign Contractor License from the Department of Permits, Licenses, and Inspections.

Wondering How Much Your License Costs?
All Department of Permits, Licenses and Inspections fees change annually. Consult the Current Fee Schedule for new applications, renewals, and late fees.
Requirements

Government Issued Photo ID
A copy of a current, non-expired photo ID is required.
Insurance Info
A non-expired Certificate of Insurance showing general liability coverage for the applicant at the location where licensed activity will take place, and listing the City of Pittsburgh as the certificate holder and additionally insured.
Worker’s Compensation Insurance: A Certificate of Insurance showing Worker's Compensation coverage for the applicant business and listing the City of Pittsburgh as the certificate holder. If the business does not have any employees, then upload a notarized statement attesting that there are no employees.
Department of Permits, Licenses and Inspections Workers' Compensation Exemption Affidavit(PDF, 72KB).
Tax Compliance Letter
A letter verifying that the applicant is in compliance with all relevant City taxes.

jasujazumdinski
Expiration, Grace Periods, and Late Fees
For all contractor licenses, grace periods will begin at the expiration of a license and continue for sixty (60) days. If the licenses is not renewed within thirty (30) days after the expiration date, per the fee schedule, a late fee is incurred on the thirty-first (31st) day following the expiration date. If the license is not renewed within sixty (60) days after the expiration date, then on the sixty-first (61st) day following the expiration date, the license automatically lapses. All licensees that allow their license to lapse must apply for a new license and meet all new license requirements at the time of that new application. Permits related to the licensed activity will be suspended until a valid and current trade license is connected to the permitted work.
All licenses expire 365 days from the date of issuance.
All applications must be fully completed to be processed. An incomplete application will be returned to the applicant.
Resources
Looking for additional info or clarification on your license requirements?
Check out the Rules and Regulations(PDF, 626KB)
How do I get a tax certification letter?
Call or email the Department of Finance
last updated: 08/07/2025
Back to top
Ready
jasujazumdinski