Skip to main content
opens in new tab or window
In This Section

City Planning
Mobility and Infrastructure
Permits, Licenses, and Inspections  - Applications &amp; Forms
OneStopPGH
Permits    - About PLI
Residential Permits
Commercial Permits
Permit Process
Work Not Requiring a Permit

Licenses
Bulletins
Community Resources
Code Enforcement
Condemned Buildings
PLI Fees
Building Codes
Appeals
PLI Contacts
Announcements
Registrations
Digital Equity In Pittsburgh
Small Business Resources
Public Works
Zoning
Geographic Information Systems, Mapping &amp; Open Data
Procurement
PGH Lab
Sustainability

Permit Application Review
Application Review Order and Service Level Agreements (SLA)
PLI does not currently offer preliminary Plan Review services. PLI's current accelerated Plan Review services are limited to commercial fire alarm and commercial suppression systems permits, as well as commercial mechanical and electrical permits with work that does not require a Zoning Development Review application (ZDR) from the Department of City Planning. Fees apply. See PLI's Accelerated Plan Reviews Guidance for additional informaiton. All application submissions are reviewed in order based on the date a completed application is accepted by the OneStopPGH portal or counter.
Please see the most recent bulletin regarding our accelerated review policy here: Feb 17, 2023 Bulletin.
The Service Level Agreement (SLA’s) for each permit type that require application review are as follows:

30 business days initial, 15 business day revision or amendment
Commercial structures for Building Development Applications (BDAs), Building, Mechanical, Fire Alarm, Suppression System, Floodplain, Demolition and Land Operations Permits
15 business days initial, 8 business day revision or amendment
Residential structures for BDAs, Building, Mechanical, Electrical, Demolition, Floodplain, and Occupancy Only Permits
7 business days initial, revision or amendment
Commercial structures for BDAs that include Temporary Occupancy and Interior Non-Structural Demolition work scopes
Emergency Reviews, as verified by PLI staff
5 business days initial, revision or amendment
Commercial structures for Condemned Building Review and Minor Floodplain Review

In addition to the OneStopPGH portal, please refer to this webpage for publicly available resources to help applicants and the public independently track applications through the PLI permitting processes.
Basis for Review
PLI is legally obligated to review each application for compliance with code compliance based on the information provided on the submitted drawings.  Please refer to building standard and codes for additional information regarding applicable codes.
PLI has developed review checklists that are used to evaluate each application type.  Please review these checklists to confirm you have provided adequate information and demonstrated code compliance.
Please note your permit scope may require review and approval by other agencies, please see Other Agency Coordination for an overview of these requirements and processes.
Application Response
If the application requires OneStopPGH review, the applicant will be notified of permit approval or to request revisions either through the OneStopPGH portal or directly by email or fax – if submitted to the OneStopPGH counter.
Revisions Requested
PLI’s request for revisions will include a formal plan review record providing a list of comments and/or corrections required for your application to be approved.  The report will identify code references for the requested items.  Please review these code references to better understand why corrections are required and what needs to be corrected.
Submissions
Please note that application submissions, including revisions, will only be accepted electronically through the OneStopPGH portal or in hard copy format through the OneStopPGH counter.
Application Abandonment
Please note that PLI will consider your application abandoned and void if either of the following applies:

If no response is made to a request for revisions within 180 days
If an approved permit is not paid for and issued within 180 days

All application materials associated with abandoned permits will be discarded.
Next Steps
Permit Issuance. Once you have been notified of permit approval, your permit is ready to be issued.
last updated: 04/23/2025
Back to top
Ready
jasujazumdinski