Skip to main content
opens in new tab or window
In This Section

City Planning
Mobility and Infrastructure
Permits, Licenses, and Inspections  - Applications &amp; Forms
OneStopPGH
Permits
Licenses    - Business Licenses
Contractor Licenses
Trade Licenses

Bulletins
Community Resources
Code Enforcement
Condemned Buildings
PLI Fees
Building Codes
Appeals
PLI Contacts
Announcements
Registrations
Digital Equity In Pittsburgh
Small Business Resources
Public Works
Zoning
Geographic Information Systems, Mapping &amp; Open Data
Procurement
PGH Lab
Sustainability

Bed and Breakfast License
The City of Pittsburgh requires an annual Bed and Breakfast License for anyone who owns or operates a Bed and Breakfast Establishment within the City of Pittsburgh. A Bed and Breakfast is defined as a small lodging establishment that offers overnight accommodations where the owner-operator lives on premises.  Inspections that accompany a Bed and Breakfast License are to insure there are no IPMC violations, and that the property is in compliance with the Certificate of Occupancy (including parking lots.) For a comprehensive definition and list of requirements, please see Chapter 767: Bed and Breakfast Establishments in the City Code and the PLI Rules and Regulations.

Application Process
1) Prepare Required Documents

Check below for a list of license requirements
For more detailed info, Check out the Rules and Regulations

2) Complete Application

Fill out an application online!

3) Submit Documents and Payment

Check the cost of your license application fee here: Current Fee Schedule

jasujazumdinski
License Requirements

Certificate of occupancy for use as bed and breakfast. Click here to search for existing certificates of occupancy.
City of Pittsburgh tax compliance letter from the City Finance department.
General Liability insurance certificate with the City of Pittsburgh listed as certificate holder.
Valid government-issued photo ID of the applicant.
Workers compensation certificate or affidavit of exemption.

Late Fees
A late fee will be charged the day after your license expires. If your license is not renewed within 30 days of expiration, it is considered lapsed and closed. All business licenses expire a year from the date of issuance.
Resources

Looking for additional info or clarification on your license requirements?
Check out the Rules and Regulations
Where can I find my certificate of occupancy?
Check out PLI's online Occupancy Search
How do I get a tax certification letter?
Call or email the Department of Finance
Insurance info
A non-expired Certificate of Insurance showing general liability coverage for the applicant at the location where licensed activity will take place, and listing the City of Pittsburgh as the certificate holder and additionally insured. General liability insurance minimums as follows: $1,000,000 each occurrence, $2,000,000 general aggregate.
Worker’s Compensation Insurance: A Certificate of Insurance showing Worker's Compensation coverage for the applicant business and listing the City of Pittsburgh as the certificate holder. If the business does not have any employees, then upload a notarized statement attesting that there are no employees.
Department of Permits, Licenses and Inspections Workers' Compensation Exemption Affidavit.

last updated: 04/24/2025
Back to top
Ready
jasujazumdinski