Skip to main content
opens in new tab or window
In This Section

Mayor
City Controller
City Council
Boards, Authorities, Commissions
Legal Services
Jobs
Finance &amp; Budget  - Campaign Finances
Dog Licenses
Fee Schedule
Management &amp; Budget    - About Office of Management and Budget
Budgets and Reports
Procurement
Budget Engagement
Grants Office
Fleet Operations
OMB Contacts
Community Development

New Business Registration
Pilot Home Buying Program
Real Estate
Taxes
Contacts &amp; Information

Community Development Documents
Reporting and Planning Documents
The City of Pittsburgh has prepared its draft FY2025-2029 Five-Year Consolidated Plan and FY 2025 Annual Action Plan. In order to obtain the views of citizens, public agencies and other interested parties, the City of Pittsburgh will place its draft FY2025-2029 Five-Year Consolidated Plan and FY 2025 Annual Action Plan online from July 3, 2025 through August 4, 2025. Written or verbal public comments on the draft FY 2025 Annual Action Plan will be received until 4:00 P.M. on Monday, August 4, 2025.
Click here to view the entire draft document(PDF, 7MB)
Consolidated Plan
The City of Pittsburgh submits a Consolidated Plan (CP) every five years as required by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD). The Consolidated Plan is a strategic plan to implement Federal programs for housing and community &amp; economic development activities within the City of Pittsburgh. These activities are funded through the Community Development Block Grant (CDBG), Home Investment Partnership (HOME), Emergency Shelter Grant (ESG), and Housing Opportunities for Persons with AIDS (HOPWA) programs. The consolidated plan is submitted to HUD no later than August 16th of the first year included in that plan.

2020-2024 Consolidated Plan and 2020 Annual Action Plan(PDF, 45MB)

jasujazumdinski
Annual Action Plan
Each year the City of Pittsburgh submits an Annual Action Plan to the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD). The Annual Plan documents what activities the City will fund through the Community Development Block Grant (CDBG), Home Investment Partnership (HOME), Emergency Shelter Grant (ESG), and Housing Opportunities for Persons with AIDS (HOPWA) programs for the upcoming year. The plan is submitted to HUD no later than August 16th each year.

2024 Annual Action Plan(PDF, 6MB)
2023 Annual Action Plan(PDF, 10MB)
2022 Annual Action Plan(PDF, 74MB)
2021 Annual Action Plan(PDF, 31MB)

Consolidated Annual Performance Evaluation Report (CAPER)
Each year the City of Pittsburgh submits a Consolidated Annual Performance Evaluation Report (CAPER) to the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD). The report describes in detail how all Community Development Block Grant (CDBG), Home Investment Partnership (HOME), Emergency Solutions Grant (ESG), and Housing Opportunities for Persons with AIDS (HOPWA) funds were expended over the previous fiscal year. Historically, the fiscal year went from April 1st to March 31st. As of January 15, 2023, the program year is October 1st to September 30th. Beginning with the 2022 CAPER (to be published in 2023), these reports will be submitted to HUD no later than December 30th each year.

2023 CAPER(PDF, 25MB)
2022 CAPER(PDF, 9MB)
2021 CAPER(PDF, 17MB)

jasujazumdinski
Analysis of Impediments to Fair Housing Choice
In accordance with the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974, as amended, each entitlement community such as Pittsburgh must “affirmatively further fair housing.” To demonstrate that an entitlement community is “affirmatively furthering fair housing,” it must prepare an Analysis of Impediments to Fair Housing Choice which identifies any impediments to fair housing choice and what steps it will take to affirmatively further fair housing. The City of Pittsburgh performs this analysis and prepares an Assessment of Fair Housing every five years.

2020 Pittsburgh Analysis of Impediments to Fair Housing Choice(PDF, 38MB)

HOME-ARP
Congress appropriated $5 billion in funds under the American Rescue Plan (ARP) Act of 2021. These funds are to be used to assist the homeless and those persons and families who are at risk of becoming homeless. The U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) is administering this program and the City of Pittsburgh was allocated $8,342,028 in HOME-ARP funds. The City of Pittsburgh, Office of Management and Budget, Community Development Division is the lead entity and the administrator for the HOME-ARP funds. In addition, the Urban Redevelopment Authority of Pittsburgh (URA), through a cooperative agreement between the two (2) agencies will assist the City with implementing components of the HOME-ARP Allocation Plan. The URA of Pittsburgh is the lead entity and administrator for the HOME funds. The City of Pittsburgh prepared this HOME-ARP Allocation Plan to address its local needs and to establish priorities for the use of HOME-ARP funds.

HOME-ARP Allocation Plan(PDF, 7MB)

jasujazumdinski
Archives
View Archived Documents
last updated: 09/15/2025
Back to top
Ready
jasujazumdinski