Skip to main content
opens in new tab or window
In This Section

Police
Fire
Animal Care &amp; Control
Emergency Medical Services  - Ambulance Division    - Station Locations
What is a Paramedic?
What's on your Medic Unit?

Rescue Division
Special Programs
Special Event Operations
Training Division
Annual Reports
EMS Contacts
Privacy Practices
Become a Paramedic
Freedom House EMT Training
Office of Community Health and Safety
Alerts
Public Safety

What is a Paramedic?

Highly trained paramedics initiate treatment to stabilize patients prior to commencing transport to the hospital. In some cases a Paramedic can completely reverse the condition allowing for the patient to remain at home. For specific conditions, stabilizing the patient at the scene frequently allows for the reversal of life-threatening conditions that otherwise would result in a long term detrimental outcome if treatment was postponed until arrival at a hospital.
Paramedics administer treatment and medications for a variety of conditions including: chest pain, trouble breathing, heart failure and emphysema as well as treating a host of other medical conditions. We also treat patients with various traumatic injuries ranging from the broken nose to the most significantly injured patients.
All of our Paramedics are also state certified in various rescue practices, which allows all of our personnel to interchangeably work on either a Medic Unit or Rescue Truck. Many of our Paramedics are also certified in numerous other categories that allow our personnel to respond to calls for assistance from specialty teams such as the Urban Search and Rescue Team, PA Strike Team-1, Allegheny County Hazmat Medical Response Team, City of Pittsburgh HazMat and Allegheny County HazMat, just to name a few. As well as being certified in so many different domains, many of our Paramedics are actually instructors in a wide variety of Public Safety disciplines and several serve as field preceptors for Paramedic students and emergency physicians.
last updated: 04/22/2025
Back to top
Ready
jasujazumdinski