opens in new tab or window
In This Section
City Planning
Mobility and Infrastructure  - About Mobility and Infrastructure
Maps
Plans
Current DOMI Projects
Transportation Development Review
Right-of-Way Management    - Right-of-Way Procedures Manual
ROW 311 and Code Enforcement
Applicant Guidance
Telecommunications
Small Cell Facilities
Encroachment Permit
Outdoor Dining & Operations Program
Permits, Licenses, and Inspections
Digital Equity In Pittsburgh
Small Business Resources
Public Works
Zoning
Geographic Information Systems, Mapping & Open Data
Procurement
PGH Lab
Sustainability
Encroachment Permit
Attention: Encroachment permits are now on OneStopPGH. OneStopPGH allows applicants to upload documents and make payment online. Please see our applicant guidance page and OneStopPGH for more details. Email domipermits@pittsburghpa.gov if you have questions.
What is an Encroachment?
An Encroachment Permit allows your privately owned and maintained item or facility to occupy the public right-of-way. DOMI provides no guarantee that encroachments will be approved.
The Department of Mobility and Infrastructure classifies encroachments as Major or Minor:
Major Encroachments(PDF, 247KB) are a type of obstruction that is a permanent structure constructed or erected in a fixed location in the public right-of-way that is structurally or otherwise integral to abutting property and are assumed to be conveyed with any transfer of the building to the original permittee’s successors or assigns. Major encroachments include but are not limited to foundations, fences, vaults, retaining walls, ramps, steps, balconies and non-standard infrastructure.
Minor Encroachments(PDF, 276KB) are a type of obstruction that is minor in nature, posing little long-term physical impact on the public space and which can be removed with relative ease. Minor encroachments are often desirable or convenient, but not necessary or required, for the use and enjoyment of private property and will be considered for permit by the City where such encroachment does not interfere with the public’s safety, convenience, use, or enjoyment of the public right-of-way. Minor Encroachments include but are not limited to, planters, benches, bike racks, overhead projecting awnings without footers, overhead projecting signs, building or mechanical equipment that project over the right-of-way (ROW), and most fences.
jasujazumdinski
When do I need to apply for an Encroachment Plan?
You must apply for an Encroachment Plan under the following circumstances:
New Major and Minor Encroachments: An Encroachment Plan application must be submitted for all requests for new Encroachments.
Existing Encroachments: An Encroachment Permit application may be required for an existing Encroachment when:
no Encroachment Permit application is on file
the parcel’s land use or occupancy changes
the property owner proposes to modify the Encroachment
the Encroachment requires repair or reconstruction (Pittsburgh Code of Ordinances 416.01)
If you are unsure whether you need an Encroachment Plan for proposed work, please contact the DOMI Permit Division at domipermits@pittsburghpa.gov.
What do I need to do before applying for an Encroachment?
Before applying, please review the Major and Minor Encroachment Guides for more detailed information about the plan types and application process.
Applicant Guidance
How do I apply for an Encroachment Plan?
You can start your Encroachment Plan application at OneStopPGH.
Download a paper copy of an Encroachment Application(PDF, 634KB).
last updated: 04/23/2025
Back to top
Ready
jasujazumdinski