opens in new tab or window
In This Section
City Planning  - About City Planning
City Planning Meeting Calendar
City Planning Public Notices
Commissions and Boards
Historic Preservation Program
Public Art Program
Neighborhood Planning
Master & Neighborhood Plans
City Planning Projects
City Planning Programs
Development Review Process Guides
Mobility and Infrastructure
Permits, Licenses, and Inspections
Digital Equity In Pittsburgh
Small Business Resources
Public Works
Zoning
Geographic Information Systems, Mapping & Open Data
Procurement
PGH Lab
Sustainability
Subsidy
These links change page section content below
Overview
"I need affordable housing"
"I need help with a down payment or closing costs"
"I am experiencing a housing crisis and may lose my home"
"I need to clear title on my property or I would like to buy and renovate vacant, blighted, or tax-delinquent property"
"I need help repairing my home"
"I need accessible housing for myself or for a member of my community"
"I need senior housing for myself or for a member of my community"
"I am a landlord or community-based developer looking for resources"
1. Overview
City Planning and its partners are committed to providing diverse housing options for Pittsburgh residents of all income levels. Subsidy can be defined as monetary assistance granted by a government to a person or group. It is often a key element in developing and preserving affordable homes for our most vulnerable neighbors. Learn more about the City and its partners' part in providing subsidies by clicking through common topics.
jasujazumdinski
2. "I need affordable housing"
Housing affordability often means stability for many families. When housing is and remains affordable, families are able to stay connected with their communities and focus on the future. Listed below are some of the many affordable housing providers within the City.
Housing Authority Public Housing and HCV Program Admission Criteria
The Housing Authority of the City of Pittsburgh provides Low-Income Public Housing and Housing Choice Vouchers (HCV), commonly referred to as Section 8 Vouchers. Low-Income Public Housing is a federal subsidy that provides quality, safe rental housing. HCV is also a federal subsidy available to residents who make no more than 50% of the area’s median income. These vouchers can be applied to either rentals or homeownership. The link above provides more specific income guidelines, eligibility criteria, and more for both.
Pittsburgh Hispanic Development Corporation Housing Initiative
The Pittsburgh Hispanic Development Corporation partners with real estate companies and landlords to facilitate access to the rental and housing ownership market for Pittsburgh's Hispanic community.
3. "I need help with a down payment or closing costs"
Homeownership is a monumental step for many people, and down payments or closing costs add to the difficulty of purchasing a home. The City and its partners are committed to assisting future homeowners in achieving that goal. Here are a few programs that provide resources toward homeownership.
URA Down Payment and Closing Cost Assistance Program
The Urban Redevelopment Authority's Down Payment and Closing Cost Assistance Program provides loans to first-time home buyers who want to purchase an existing or newly constructed home within the City of Pittsburgh. There are multiple loan options available, including 0% interest, 5- and 10-year deferred loans depending on the buyer's eligibility. Click on the link above to learn more about program requirements.
FHLBank - First Front Door Program
FHLBank offers grants for down payment and closing costs for first-time homebuyers. FHLBank also offers the Keys equity fund for minority and first-generation first-time homebuyers. Learn more about the program details and applicant requirements through the link above.
jasujazumdinski
4. "I am experiencing a housing crisis and may lose my home"
The City of Pittsburgh is committed to ensuring that residents remain our neighbors. Listed below are partners and their programs that provide eviction prevention resources for renters and homeowners in need.
URA Legal Assistance Program
The Urban Redevelopment Authority of Pittsburgh offers a multitude of legal services to both homeowners and renters under certain income limits. For renters, their Legal Assistance Program provides mediation services, limited legal consultation, and full legal representation. Homeowners can access tangled title and foreclosure prevention services.
URA Housing Stabilization Program
The URA’s Housing Stabilization Program offers one-time or short-term financial assistance to those who are facing a temporary, non-recurring housing crisis. Renters and homeowners may receive up to $6,000 in housing assistance under 3 categories: Move-in assistance, rent, and mortgage assistance (if not in Act 91). Applicants can apply once every 3 years. The link above provides more information and eligibility requirements.
NOTE: The Housing Stabilization Program is currently closed and not accepting applications at this time.
Rebuilding Together Pittsburgh
Rebuilding Together Pittsburgh offers a variety of programs including Affordable Housing Repair, Rehab for Resale, Safe & Healthy Homes, and Utility Partner Programs, and Building Connections. To learn more about any one of these programs, visit the link above for more details.
jasujazumdinski
5. "I need to clear title on my property or I would like to buy and renovate vacant, blighted, or tax-delinquent property"
Not all homes are move-in ready, and may require additional investment. Residents can access the following resources for assistance in navigating title clearance or vacant property acquisition processes.
URA Legal Assistance Program
The Urban Redevelopment Authority of Pittsburgh offers a multitude of legal services to both homeowners and renters under certain income limits. Qualified homeowners can access tangled title services.
Pittsburgh Land Bank
The Pittsburgh Land Bank acquires, manages, and markets blighted, abandoned, and tax-foreclosed properties. That boils it down to making it easier for new owners to fix abandoned and blighted property to get them to a better state.
6. "I need help repairing my home"
Homeownership comes with large purchases that may seem unexpected. Plan ahead for roof replacements, building envelope weatherization, and other large projects by reviewing the resources listed here.
URA Homeowner Assistance Program
The Urban Redevelopment Authority Homeowner Assistance Program provides up to $35,000 to eligible homeowners. Priority applicants include households with major code violations, households with children ages 5 and under, and households with seniors age 66 years and older. Apart from addressing code violations, residents can use the funding for energy efficiency improvement and eligible general property improvements.
Action Housing - Lead Safe Homes
Allegheny County Economic Development offers qualified County homeowners and renters free lead-paint testing and access to certified lead-abatement contractors to stabilize or eliminate lead paint. To apply and learn more about the program, visit the link above.
Bloomfield Garfield Corporation - Neighbors in Need Fund
The Bloomfield Garfield Corporation’s Neighbors in Need Fund provides grants of $600 maximum for a multitude of issues. Those who are going through unexpected hardships and have no other sources for assistance or have an educational/career related need that would enable them in the direction of better economic opportunities are encouraged to apply as long as they meet the other eligibility criteria. To learn more about what the Neighbors in Need Fund can do for you, visit the website linked above for more information.
jasujazumdinski
7. "I need accessible housing for myself or for a member of my community"
Housing that is accessible for people with disabilities is relatively rare. There are programs that catalogue the housing units, while others help to augment existing homes for people with disabilities or elderly residents with changing mobility needs.
URA Home Assistance Program for Independence
The Urban Redevelopment Authority of Pittsburgh’s Home Assistance Program for Independence provides grants to eligible homeowners and landlords to modify homes for a number of accessibility purposes. Homeowners are eligible to receive between $1,000 to $15,000 for a single-unit home. Landlords may receive up to $7,500 per unit. The link above provides more information about what kind of modifications can be done as well as who qualifies for the grant.
Action Housing - Housing Connector
The Housing Connector provides resources for people with disabilities and their families looking for accessible housing. To learn more about qualifications and services, visit the link above.
8. "I need senior housing for myself or for a member of my community"
There are a number of senior housing communities within the City of Pittsburgh. Here are a few resources to help guide residents.
Allegheny County Housing Information Guide
The link above is a major resource that provides information on senior subsidized housing in Allegheny County. From a step-by-step walkthrough on applying for housing to providing guidance on utilities and searching for housing, there is a wealth of information available.
Allegheny County Area Agency on Aging
The Allegheny County Area Agency on Aging provides a variety of services for the following groups: All older adults and their loved ones, independent and active older adults, older adults facing challenges but want to remain in their homes, older adults who need skilled care, and support for those caring for seniors. To learn more about specific services available, visit the link above for more information.
Housing Authority of the City of Pittsburgh
The Housing Authority of the City of Pittsburgh helps seniors in a multitude of ways. They offer 10 Senior High-Rise Communities in which seniors can enjoy community, support, and a high quality of life. These communities offer assistance with technology, food delivery, health services, and entertainment. They also list a number of referral services that residents can connect with. Click on the link above for additional information.
jasujazumdinski
9. "I am a landlord or community-based developer looking for resources"
Housing providers such as landlords, for-profit or community-based developers, can access resources to help provide affordable housing for residents.
URA Small Landlord Fund
For landlords with 10 or fewer units, the Small Landlord Fund provides funding in the form of loans for repairs and upgrades. This program aims to increase and preserve affordable, decent quality housing within the area. Landlords that participate in this program are required to rent unit(s) to Housing Choice Voucher holders or households at or under 80% of the Area Median Income. To learn more about requirements, eligible uses for funding, and detailed loan information, visit the link above.
Neighborhood Allies - Resources for Neighborhood Development
Neighborhood Allies provides a wealth of resources in order to assist in creating healthy neighborhoods and to help low-to-moderate income residents up the socio-economic ladder. To take advantage of their various programs that provide valuable information and financial assistance, visit the Neighborhood Development Section in the above link.
last updated: 07/02/2025
Back to top
Ready
jasujazumdinski