Skip to main content
opens in new tab or window
In This Section

City Planning
Mobility and Infrastructure
Permits, Licenses, and Inspections
Digital Equity In Pittsburgh
Small Business Resources
Public Works
Zoning
Geographic Information Systems, Mapping &amp; Open Data  - Geographic Information System (GIS) &amp; Mapping    - Explore PGH GIS/Mapping Hub
Interactive Apps, Maps &amp; Dashboards

PGH Open Data
Related Links &amp; Resources
Procurement
PGH Lab
Sustainability

Address Request &amp; New Street Name Request

How To Obtain a New Street Address or Change of Address(show below)
Before any type of permit application can be reviewed/issued in the City of Pittsburgh, an address must be obtained from the City's GIS Team

Instructions and Applications are available at:

Address Application Instructions(PDF, 512KB)

Address Application(PDF, 316KB) (a fillable pdf form)
GIS assigns street address and inform relevant City of Pittsburgh departments, Allegheny County departments, &amp; the United States Postal Service approximately two weeks after this fully completed application has been received &amp; all required documents are provided

Address Assignment Information

Addresses are issued based upon survey information.
Dependent upon the type of project, the address assignment may take anywhere from one day to two weeks.
Review Criteria:
Determination of how the particular lot fits in with the entire block sequence.
Formula: One address per 11 linear feet, or closest number of feet to 11 if insufficient footage available.
The site is field checked for any discrepancies.
Address assignment sent to Post Office and 911 Communications.

How to Obtain a New Street Name(show below)

Applicant submits a New Street Name Request to the GIS Team
Street Application Instructions(PDF, 306KB)
Street Application(PDF, 389KB) (a fillable pdf form)
GIS reviews the request.
When the review and verification process is complete, legislation is drawn up and sent to City Council for approval.
Final approval is obtained from the Mayor’s Office.

Note: The entire review time takes an average of three months.
jasujazumdinski
Contact Us
City GIS
Department of Innovation and Performance
604 City - County Building
414 Grant St.
Pittsburgh, PA 15219
Phone: (412) 255-2152
Fax: (412) 255-2431
addressing@pittsburghpa.gov
last updated: 04/24/2025
Back to top
Ready
jasujazumdinski