opens in new tab or window
In This Section
City Planning
Mobility and Infrastructure
Permits, Licenses, and Inspections  - Applications & Forms
OneStopPGH
Permits
Licenses    - Business Licenses
Contractor Licenses
Trade Licenses
Bulletins
Community Resources
Code Enforcement
Condemned Buildings
PLI Fees
Building Codes
Appeals
PLI Contacts
Announcements
Registrations
Digital Equity In Pittsburgh
Small Business Resources
Public Works
Zoning
Geographic Information Systems, Mapping & Open Data
Procurement
PGH Lab
Sustainability
Child Care Facility Registry
On November 30, 2021, Pittsburgh City Council passed a Lead Safety Law to protect the public from the dangers of lead-based hazards. Beginning May 29, 2022, child-occupied facilities (including active day cares, pre-schools, or kindergarten classrooms) located in Pre-1978 buildings will need to register with the Department of Permits, Licenses, and Inspections. Sign up for PLI's newsletter to receive any Lead Safety program updates.
Applications
Applications for Child-Occupied Facility registration will be accepted through the OneStopPGH portal. PLI will begin to accept Child-Occupied Facility registration applications on May 2, 2022. Applications received prior to the May 29, 2022 enforcement start date will have registration term beginning May 29, 2022. PLI expects all applicable child-occupied facilities to be registered by December 31, 2022.
Child-Occupied Facility registration applications will be processed within 5-business days after the date of submission to PLI through the OneStopPGH portal. For more information about PLI's submission procedures, visit our bulletin on Temporary Procedures Until Move to 412 Blvd of the Allies(PDF, 406KB).
Child-Occupied Facility registrations are valid for one year and must be renewed annually. Renewals may be submitted 30-days prior to the registration’s expiration date. PLI will send email or mail correspondence to registrants letting them know when it’s time to renew.
Applications will require submission of a valid Certificate of Occupancy for the location. Please use PLI’s search tool for a copy of your Certificate of Occupancy. If you do not have a current, valid certificate of occupancy, you must obtain one prior to application. See this page for more information on Certificates of Occupancy.
jasujazumdinski
Insurance Requirements
We accept the following to meet the insurance requirements for the Child-Occupied facility registry:
General liability insurance
Homeowner's insurance
Insurance policy cannot include the following language, "This insurance does not apply to any claim made or suit brought against any insured by any person who makes a claim because of bodily injury to any person who is in the care of any insured because of child care services provided by or at the directions of any insured."
Please view the Child-Occupied Facilities Rules and Regulations(PDF, 195KB) for full application requirements.
Fees
All Child-Occupied Facility registrations will be assessed a fee of $50.00.
Inspection Process
Following issuance of a registration, if the building was constructed prior to 1978, owners and responsible agents will be required to schedule an inspection with PLI. Inspections will be requested through the OneStopPGH customer portal. For more information on how to schedule an inspection please watch How to Request an Inspection. PLI's inspectors will perform a lead dust wipe inspection which will be tested by an approved vendor.
Additional Information
This page will be updated periodically to provide more information. Sign up for PLI's newsletter to receive Lead Safety program updates.
Click here to view PLI's Lead Safety Child Occupied Facilities 120-Day Report(PDF, 269KB) that was submitted to Pittsburgh City Council on March 22, 2022.
last updated: 07/30/2025
Back to top
Ready
jasujazumdinski