opens in new tab or window
In This Section
City Planning
Mobility and Infrastructure
Permits, Licenses, and Inspections
Digital Equity In Pittsburgh
Small Business Resources
Public Works
Zoning
Geographic Information Systems, Mapping & Open Data
Procurement  - Welcome to Beacon
Beacon FAQs
Bid Opportunities
Current Contracts
Procurement Resources
City Buying Plan
Certified Vendor List
PGH Lab
Sustainability
Beacon FAQs
What is Beacon?(show below)
The new and improved Beacon is a secure, user-friendly, web-based eProcurement system for the City of Pittsburgh. The system will help to streamline procurement processes as well as offer many new features and expanded services, including:
Business opportunities will be posted to a consolidated bid board where you can view and respond
Automatic email notification of business opportunities
Ability to electronically submit bids or proposals
Enhanced self-service vendor registration in a "one-stop shop”
What are the benefits?(show below)
Free online access to information and increased visibility of business opportunities
Free registration for vendors and needing to register only once for multiple local agencies
Convenient, free online bidding
Free automated email notifications of new bid opportunities
Single access point to City of Pittsburgh/local agency bids
Should I be registered?(show below)
Yes. All previous vendors who sell products and/or services to the City of Pittsburgh and other local agencies will need to re-register with through this site to begin bidding on opportunities
All new vendors that wish to bid on future opportunities will need to register as well. No awards can be made without a vendor registration profile set up
Registering in the new system is important so you don’t miss receiving bid opportunity notifications
Where do I find City of Pittsburgh and other agency opportunities?(show below)
Go to the Bid Opportunities tab
Who do I contact if I have issues with Vendor Registration, Login or Password?(show below)
Please contact procurement-support@opengov.com for support regarding these topics.
Who do I contact if I have issues outside of Vendor Registration and Vendor Passwords?(show below)
Please contact Vendors@pittsburghpa.gov for all other questions.
I have completed the Vendor Registration. How do I manage my Vendor Profile?(show below)
Vendors have access to login and manage their vendor profiles. Once you login, click on the company name with the drop down arrow. Click My Account. Vendors are expected to keep the most up to date contact information with a correct email address for solicitation notifications.
Now that I have registered on Beacon, how do I submit a bid for open solicitations?(show below)
Once vendors register, they can log in and click on the "Need Help" drop down and click "Online Help". This page has video tutorials and instructions on how to submit bids.
last updated: 07/16/2025
Back to top
Ready
jasujazumdinski