opens in new tab or window
In This Section
City Planning
Mobility and Infrastructure
Permits, Licenses, and Inspections  - Applications & Forms
OneStopPGH
Permits    - About PLI
Residential Permits
Commercial Permits
Permit Process
Work Not Requiring a Permit
Licenses
Bulletins
Community Resources
Code Enforcement
Condemned Buildings
PLI Fees
Building Codes
Appeals
PLI Contacts
Announcements
Registrations
Digital Equity In Pittsburgh
Small Business Resources
Public Works
Zoning
Geographic Information Systems, Mapping & Open Data
Procurement
PGH Lab
Sustainability
Electrical Permit
A residential electrical permit is required for the following work on a residential building or structure (single-family or two-family dwelling or associated accessory structure such as a garage)
Renovate and repair existing electrical systems.
Extend or modify an existing electrical system.
Installation of a new electrical system.
Please see Permit Home for the definition of commercial structures and work types. Please see Work Not Requiring A Permit for work that can be performed without a PLI permit. Please visit our Contacts page for the Construction Inspector's contact information.
New Construction Work Scopes
The new construction work type applies to the installation of systems in a new house. The applicant shall identify one or more of the following work scopes:
Service, Power, and Lighting - 400 A or less: installation of service rated 400 amperes or less, distribution system, power, and lighting. Installation of an exterior generator is not permitted under this work scope.
Service, Power, and Lighting - over 400 A: installation of service rated over 400 amperes, distribution system, power, and lighting. Installation of an exterior generator is not permitted under this work scope.
Generator - Exterior: installation of an exterior generator.
Ground Mounted Solar PV Array: installation of a PV array that is mounted on the ground and/or not on the roof of a building.
Roof Mounted Solar PV Array: installation of a PV array that is mounted on the roof of a building. Installation is limited to buildings with a valid certificate of occupancy.
Swimming Pool: installation of grounding and bonding systems for a swimming pool, spa, or hot tub.
Temporary Utility Service/Generator: installation of a temporary utility service and/or generator associated with the construction of the building.
jasujazumdinski
Addition / Alteration Work Scopes
The addition/alteration work type applies to the alteration of existing systems or installation of new systems in an existing house. The applicant shall identify one or more of the following work scopes:
Power and Lighting: installation or modification of power devices, distribution system, and/or lighting. Installation of an exterior generator is not permitted under this work scope.
Service - 400 A or less: installation or modification of service rated 400 amperes or less. Installation of an exterior generator is not permitted under this work scope.
Service - over 400 A: installation or modification of service rated over 400 amperes. Installation of an exterior generator is not permitted under this work scope.
Equipment – Exterior: installation or modification of an exterior generator.
Ground Mounted Solar PV Array: installation or modification of a PV array that is mounted on the ground and/or not on the roof of a building.
Roof Mounted Solar PV Array: installation or modification of a PV array that is mounted on the roof of a building. Installation is limited to buildings with a valid certificate of occupancy.
Service Reconnect In-Kind: reconnection of an existing previously approved electrical service in-kind (same location, phase, amperage, and service equipment).
Swimming Pool: installation or modification of grounding and bonding systems for a swimming pool, spa, or hot tub.
Temporary Utility Service/Generator: installation of a temporary utility service and/or generator associated with the construction of the building.
jasujazumdinski
Minor Alteration Work Types
The minor alteration work type applies to the alteration of existing systems in an existing house. The applicant shall identify one or more of the following work scopes:
Replacement of devices (in kind): replacement of existing power devices in kind (same location and ampere rating).
Replacement of fixtures (in kind): replacement of existing light fixtures in kind (same location and ampere rating).
Permit Process
The permit process consists of the following steps:
Application Submission
Application Review
Service, Power, and Lighting - over 400 A and Service - over 400 A work scopes require submission of construction drawings to OneStopPGH.
All other work scope does not require submission of construction drawings to OneStopPGH.
Permit Issuance
Permit Inspections
Permit issued after 1/1/2021 shall be inspected by PLI.
Permit issued prior to 1/1/2021 shall require the permit holder to engage a registered Third Party Agency to perform electrical inspections.
Permit Completion
Please see Other Agency Coordination for processes related to other agencies that may relate to your permit scope. For residential building permits:
Zoning Development Review application (ZDR) submission is required for the following new construction and addition/alteration work scopes:
Generator – Exterior.
Ground Mounted Solar PV Array.
Development of a property in a regulated floodplain requires a PLI Floodplain permit.
last updated: 04/23/2025
Back to top
Ready
jasujazumdinski