Skip to main content
opens in new tab or window
In This Section

Parks
Pools
Events
Park Facilities
Special Events
Film &amp; Event Management  - Important Documents
Special Event &amp; Block Party Permitting
Film Permits
Special Events Committee
Public Event Calendar
Park Permits
About Parks

Special Event &amp; Block Party Permitting
jasujazumdinski
Eproval
With the launch of Eproval, the Office of Film &amp; Event Management (OFEM) is instituting a new two-phase application approach to event permitting. The new process will allow event organizers to secure their preferred venue first, and then focus on the details of the event. Previously, applicants would need to wait until many details of their event were in place before they could apply. Now, applicants can secure their venue and dates, then move forward with hiring all of their vendors and performers with the comfort of knowing they have a secure venue and dates.
Note: Block Party Permit applications do not follow the two phase approach and will maintain their traditional application &amp; approval procedures.
PLEASE NOTE: Effective April 1 through May 17, 2026, the Office of Film and Event Management will not be accepting any applications for, or issuing any permits (event or film) for, the North Shore stadium complex and surrounding areas due to the build out and eventual removal of infrastructure related to the 2026 NFL Draft. This includes but is not limited to the Great Lawn, Three Rivers Heritage Trail, Allegheny Landing, Market Street Pier, as well as any requests for street closures from Casino Way at North Shore Drive to General Robinson at Federal Street.
The new process is separated into two distinct phases:
Phase One: Reservation of Space (ROS)(show below)
The first step in securing a special event permit will now be completing and submitting the Reservation of Space application. This application will include mostly high-level details: contact info, venue, dates, times, routes (if a run/walk etc), and basic event concept information. Per City code, this ROS application can be submitted up to 180 business days before the first permitted event date (“on-site date”, i.e. when set up would begin). To submit this application, event organizers do not need to provide site maps, insurance, vendor details, or any granular information at this time. The $25 application processing fee will be charged at submission of the ROS application.
Once received, the ROS application will be reviewed by relevant stakeholders on the City’s Special Events Committee (SEC) to determine if the requested venue is available on the dates requested, that construction or other potential conflicts do not exist or can be mediated, and if resources are available to accommodate the event. Should all these conditions be met, the ROS application will be approved. At this time, OFEM will approve the ROS application and release to the applicant Phase Two of the Special Event Permit application, and the applicant can move forward with procuring all the necessary amenities for their event knowing their venue and dates are secure. Please note, an approval of the ROS application is not a full approval to proceed with the event, it merely commits the venue to the event. Full approval does not occur until Phase Two of the application is complete.
Phase Two: Special Event Application(show below)
Upon approval of the ROS application, Phase Two of the application will be released to the applicant. It is at this time that all remaining relevant details of the event must be provided. These details include site maps, insurance, specific event timelines, any Public Safety needs, needed City resources, and entertainment information, among other things. The Phase Two application can be submitted whenever complete, but will be due to OFEM no later than fourteen (14) business days prior to the on-site date. Once submitted, the Phase Two application will be reviewed by the SEC. If there are issues with the Phase Two application during review, the application will follow the current process of OFEM working with the applicant to resolve any outstanding concerns and endeavor to get the application to an approvable state. If approved, the applicant will receive their permit and invoice for any relevant charges, including the permit fee. It is at this time the event will be considered fully approved and permitted.
Block Party Permits(show below)
A "block party" means a one-day outdoor public event organized by the residents of a City block and held upon a City right-of-way for social or entertainment purposes. Block Party permits are limited to “Residential” districts as defined in the Zoning Code and limited to one (1) city block. The activities that take place at a block party are up to the imagination of the residents and can include casual conversation, cook outs, pot luck dinners, games for children, and/or entertainment. Block parties are designed to take place in the street and on the sidewalks of the requested block. To enhance the sense of community, the City allows the street to be closed to traffic. In addition, having a Block Party Permit provides an exemption from some portions of the City’s noise ordinance, thus allowing you to play music using amplifiers that would otherwise be prohibited in public. Finally, Block Party Permits are exempt from the City’s “Open Container” law, thus allowing public consumption of alcohol by attendees of legal age at an approved block party, only on the block identified by the permit.
Block Party Permit applications must be submitted at least seven (7) business days prior to the event date to ensure proper time for review. Additionally, block party permits can only be written for weekends and federal holidays, and are only valid between the hours of 10:00am and 10:00pm. While not a federal holiday, block party permits can be issued for Halloween as a means for creating safe trick or treating environments in neighborhoods. All other conditions of a block party permit must still be met for those occurring on Halloween.
Lastly, Block party permits cannot be issued for private events, including but not limited to: wedding receptions, birthday parties, graduations or family reunions. Block Party permits also cannot be issued to create venues for artist markets, farmers markets, or other for-profit ventures. These events can apply for Special Event Permits per the conditions of those permits.
NOTE: Block Party permits are not subject to the above two-phase application process and remain a single submission application.
Please note: both Phase One and Phase Two of an event application must be completed no later than 14 business days before the on-site time. Please allow yourself enough time for both phases of the application to be approved at least 14 days before your event.
To begin your application process, please click below to launch Eproval.
LAUNCH EPROVAL APPLICATION
last updated: 09/19/2025
Back to top
Ready
jasujazumdinski