Skip to main content
opens in new tab or window
In This Section

Trash &amp; Recycling  - Collection Schedule and Newsletter
Curbside Pick Up
Commercial Recycling
Special Event Recycling
Drop-Off Info &amp; Additional Resources
Anti-Litter and Illegal Dumping
311
A - Z: Frequently Visited
ADA &amp; Disability Rights
Snow Removal
Road Maintenance
Food Programs
Pets &amp; Animals
Community Programming
Immigrant and Refugee Affairs
Tree Resources

Bulk Pick Up

Bulky or large waste items may be set out curbside with your regularly scheduled refuse pick-up.

Limit two items per week.
Place at curb no earlier than 6:00 p.m. on the night before collection and no later than 6:00 a.m. on the day of collection.

Accepted Bulky Items
Do not disassemble or place anything below in trash bags, please leave all items whole.
Bulk waste includes common large and over-sized items, such as:

Sofas, recliner chairs and tables
Box springs, mattresses and dressers
Stoves, washers and dryers
Toilets and hot water tanks
Windows and cabinets
Carpet &amp; fencing in bundles not exceeding 35 pounds or 5 feet in length

Not Accepted Bulky Items
The City of Pittsburgh does not collect the following items:

Televisions, computers, peripherals (Mouse, keyboard, etc.)
Freon appliances
Household chemicals/hazardous wastes
Demolition and construction wastes
Batteries, light bulbs
Car and automobile parts, tires

jasujazumdinski
Excessive Bulk Waste

Single-Family Dwelling: No charge for 2 or fewer bulk items per collection.
Small Apartment Buildings (5 or less units): No charge for 2 or fewer bulky items per unit per collection.

Note: Fees will be assessed for the collection of bulky waste if more than two bulky items are collected. Call our office at 412-255-2773 to arrange for a special pickup.

$173.00 for first hour or portion thereof for pick-up of more than 2 items. An additional $54.00 for each hour (or portion thereof) after the first hour, if necessary.
Personal checks or money orders are accepted and they are to be made payable to the City of Pittsburgh Treasurer.

last updated: 08/22/2025
Back to top
Ready
jasujazumdinski