Skip to main content
opens in new tab or window
In This Section

City Planning  - About City Planning
City Planning Meeting Calendar
City Planning Public Notices
Commissions and Boards
Historic Preservation Program
Public Art Program
Neighborhood Planning
Master &amp; Neighborhood Plans
City Planning Projects    - Riverbank Conditions Assessment and Best Practices Study
Broadway Avenue Public Realm Project
Hays Woods
Pittsburgh’s Riverfront Zoning

City Planning Programs
Development Review Process Guides
Mobility and Infrastructure
Permits, Licenses, and Inspections
Digital Equity In Pittsburgh
Small Business Resources
Public Works
Zoning
Geographic Information Systems, Mapping &amp; Open Data
Procurement
PGH Lab
Sustainability

Hays Woods

The 626-acre undeveloped site in southeastern Pittsburgh, historically serving industrial purposes including coal mining, was purchased by the Urban Redevelopment Authority in 2016 and will be transferred to the City for park development. While the land is not pristine, having historically served industrial uses including coal mining, it has a sense of wilderness in an otherwise urban area. Despite the environmental degradation typical of old mined lands, it features areas of significant tree canopy, significant flora and fauna, and even a pair of nesting bald eagles. A series of trails crisscross the property, indicating its popularity among outdoor recreation enthusiasts. Because of these unique qualities, the City has decided to seize the opportunity to establish Hays Woods as a city park that will expand its value to patrons for generations to come while preserving and restoring important natural ecosystems.
In 2018, then Mayor William Peduto established the Hays Woods Task Force, led by Councilman Corey O’Connor and former Mayor Tom Murphy, to identify best land uses, opportunities and constraints for the area, and guiding principles for future site master planning. The Department of City Planning has been awarded a $100,000 grant from the Department of Conservation and Natural Resource Community Conservation Program, that will be matched by the City of Pittsburgh for a project total of $200,000. The grant will allow the master plan process to begin in 2020.
The Department of City Planning also received an abandoned mine land and drainage assessment grant through Trout Unlimited that will document issues related to former deep mining on the site and provide recommendations for remediation.
jasujazumdinski
Resources

The Friends of Hays Woods group has compiled extensive resources including aerial video of the site, environmental assessments and historical documents.
Information about the Office of City Council District 5
Hays Woods Ecological and Conservation Assessment 2017(PDF, 722KB)

Task Force
Documents and Maps
last updated: 08/20/2025
Back to top
Ready
jasujazumdinski