opens in new tab or window
In This Section
City Planning
Mobility and Infrastructure
Permits, Licenses, and Inspections
Digital Equity In Pittsburgh  - Community Collaborations
Media and Information Resources
Small Business Resources
Public Works
Zoning
Geographic Information Systems, Mapping & Open Data
Procurement
PGH Lab
Sustainability
Media and Information Resources
jasujazumdinski
Media
Pittsburgh receives second Digital Inclusion Trailblazer Award, Dec 2024(show below)
City Earns Second Consecutive Year of Recognition for Efforts to Close the Digital Divide
Pittsburgh, PA – The City of Pittsburgh is proud to be named a 2024 Digital Inclusion Trailblazer by the National Digital Inclusion Alliance (NDIA). This prestigious national recognition highlights the city’s ongoing efforts to bridge the digital divide and promote digital equity for all residents.
Pittsburgh’s recognition comes as part of a record-setting cohort of 60 awardees from municipal, county, and regional governments across the United States, all of whom are leading the way in creating digitally inclusive communities. This marks the city’s second consecutive year of being honored as a Digital Inclusion Trailblazer.
“We are deeply committed to ensuring that all Pittsburgh residents have the opportunity to be connected through reliable internet access,” said Mayor Ed Gainey. “We recognize the profound impact the digital divide can have on individuals and communities, and we work every day to make sure these resources are accessible to all. We are grateful that the NDIA has acknowledged our efforts in closing the digital gap.”
Digital inclusion—ensuring access to affordable high-speed internet, digital devices, and the skills necessary to navigate the digital world—is fundamental for participation in today's society. It opens doors to economic, educational, and social opportunities, allowing individuals to thrive in an increasingly connected world.
“In the past decade, we’ve seen local governments step into the important role of building digital inclusion ecosystems, where organizations that provide services can connect and thrive,” said Angela Siefer, NDIA executive director. “NDIA’s Digital Inclusion Trailblazers celebrates these critical efforts to bring digital opportunities to all residents.”
NDIA’s Digital Inclusion Trailblazers serve as national models for other communities seeking to build and expand their own digital inclusion programs. Pittsburgh achieved Trailblazer status by prioritizing digital equity through initiatives such as:
Having dedicated staff on digital equity
Our Rec2Tech program in the Parks Department
Participation in local partner coalitions, including the Greater Pittsburgh Digital Inclusion Alliance (GPDIA)
Concrete efforts in data collecting and mapping to plan for measurable impacts toward the City's digital inclusion goals
Since its inception in 2016, NDIA’s Digital Inclusion Trailblazers program has set the national standard for excellence in digital inclusion. Each applicant’s materials are carefully reviewed for accuracy and community impact and are made available in an interactive, searchable database on the NDIA website, providing resources and inspiration for other local governments and advocates working to advance digital equity.
For more information on Pittsburgh’s digital inclusion efforts and to learn more about the NDIA’s Digital Inclusion Trailblazers program, visit https://www.digitalinclusion.org/.
###
About National Digital Inclusion Alliance: NDIA advances digital equity by supporting community programs and equipping policymakers to act. Working collaboratively with more than 1,900 digital inclusion practitioners, NDIA advocates for equitable broadband access, tech devices, digital skills training, and tech support. For more information, visit digitalinclusion.org.
Pittsburgh Receives Digital Inclusion Trailblazer Award, Dec 2023(show below)
Pittsburgh Recognized for First Time
Pittsburgh– The National Digital Inclusion Alliance (NDIA) has named the City of Pittsburgh as a 2023 Digital Inclusion Trailblazer, recognizing the city’s efforts to close the digital divide.
As the pandemic demonstrated, digital inclusion – access to affordable high-speed internet, devices, and digital skills training – is essential to participating and thriving in today’s world. Recognizing the ongoing needs of the community, Pittsburgh didn’t stop digital inclusion efforts at the end of the quarantine.
“We realize how important it is to close the digital divide that excludes older residents, minorities, disabled individuals as well as those in various under-served communities. That’s why we’re working towards closing the digital gap by 2030 as indicted in the strategic plan released on December 6th, by the Pittsburgh Digital Equity Coalition Community,” said Mayor Ed Gainey.
This year, the City of Pittsburgh, joins a record number of Digital Inclusion Trailblazers, with 47 total awardees representing municipal, county, and regional governments paving the way for digitally inclusive communities across the US.
“Nonprofits, libraries, churches, and other community organizations can’t reach digital equity on their own. For everyone to thrive in today’s digital world, we need all hands-on deck,” said Angela Siefer, NDIA executive director. “NDIA’s Digital Inclusion Trailblazers exemplify the key role local governments have in building connected communities for all of their residents.”
Trailblazers provide models for other local governments to aspire to as communities build digital inclusion ecosystems. Pittsburgh achieved Trailblazer status by prioritizing digital inclusion for residents of their communities through:
Making Accessible and Affordable Broadband a priority
Ensure all residents have access to Digital Skills Training
Resident are able to receive low-cost computing devices and technical support
NDIA revised the seven-year-old Trailblazer program this year, identifying seven categories of current best practices. Each applicant’s materials are verified for accuracy, assessed for community impact, and posted in an interactive map and searchable database on NDIA’s website. By sharing materials with open-sourcing, NDIA provides community advocates and local governments ways to continue learning, connect with trailblazing peers, and plan their own digital inclusion solutions.
###
A bout National Digital Inclusion Alliance: NDIA advances digital equity by supporting community programs and equipping policymakers to act. Working collaboratively with more than 1,500 digital inclusion practitioners, NDIA advocates for equitable broadband access, tech devices, digital skills training, and tech support. For more information, visit digitalinclusion.org.
Pittsburgh Digital Equity Coalition Unveils Community Strategic Plan, Dec 2023(show below)
PITTSBURGH DIGITAL EQUITY COALITION COMMUNITY STRATEGIC PLAN
Pittsburgh – Today, City and County officials presented the Community Strategic Plan to close the digital divide in Allegheny County by 2030.
The plan was conceived by the Pittsburgh Digital Equity Coalition consisting of local City and County Departments, some local businesses and nonprofits who recognized the need to ensure everyone in the region have affordable access to the digital world.
Due to the pandemic, the City and County recognized the gaps within the communities and neighborhoods where many residents were badly affected by their inability or lack of having digital access.
“The COVID-19 pandemic showed all of us the importance of being able to connect in today’s digital world. For many, it was absolutely imperative for education, healthcare, employment, and more,” said County Executive Rich Fitzgerald. “Ensuring adequate internet for all, particularly in those communities that are unserved and underserved with broadband, is of vital importance so that those who call this county home can continue to grow and thrive with equitable access to the many opportunities in this region.”
Along with County Executive Fitzgerald, Mayor Ed Gainey saw how important it was to close the great divide and how collaboration and partnerships can make it possible for all residents to thrive in the digital era.
“We know older residents, minorities, disabled individuals as well as those in the low-income bracket are falling through the cracks within the digital gap. We have identified the needs and have created a way to close that gap but, the plan will not work without collaboration and partnerships to implement it. We can’t become a truly thriving community without everyone succeeding,” said Mayor Ed Gainey.
One organization already implementing the plan is the United Way with their 2-1-1 Digital Navigator Network. This project is already working and is playing an integral part to make some of the plan’s key elements a reality.
It works by connecting residents to a Digital Navigator via their 24/7 helpline who can assist residents with signing-up for low-cost internet, access to a device, or digital literacy and skills training.
“By working together, we can become the hub of a thriving and technologically advanced region where education, economic mobility, healthcare and quality of life are supported and promoted for all residents,” said Heidi Norman, Department of Innovation and Performance Director.
Closing the digital divide is an important goal that will focus on residents being able to have accessible and affordable broadhead, providing digital skills training and education along with getting residents affordable computing devices and technical support by 2030.
The Pittsburgh Digital Equity Coalition Community Strategic Plan(PDF, 78MB) .
###
Pittsburgh Digital Equity Coalition Announces Open Community Feedback Meetings, May 2023(show below)
Pittsburgh Digital Equity Coalition Announces Open Community Feedback Meetings
Coalition launches updated website as it works on plan to close the digital divide in the next 5 years
The Pittsburgh  Digital Equity Coalition (PDEC) will initiate a series of public community feedback meetings with the first session happening on May 4, 2023. Details will be made available about how the public can participate on the new PDEC website, which launched today. This first session will focus on the Affordable Connectivity Program, a federal subsidy enacted in the Infrastructure Investment & Jobs Act of 2021.
ACTION: Notice of open meetings.
DATES: The community feedback meetings will be held at various dates and times from May – July 2023. Information to be posted at https://pittsburghpa.gov/innovation-performance/pdec
ADDRESSES: The session will be held virtually as well as in person. Information to be posted at https://pittsburghpa.gov/innovation-performance/pdec
The PDEC has identified four key action areas as critical to developing practical guidelines that address the digital gap in the City of Pittsburgh and throughout Allegheny County. The four key action areas are:
Robust Broadband Access at an Affordable Price
Computing Devices that Meet Users’ Needs
Training of Digital Skills and Literacy to Accomplish Users’ Goals
Widely Available and Accessible Technical Support
In their final report, due this summer, PDEC will provide specific recommendations to address each of the four areas. Broader recommendations currently include:
Make use of existing private industry and nonprofit relationships to fast-track public communications, extend program outreach, and increase infrastructure assets that help assess digital gaps, match resources with need, and allocate funding.
Use existing resources such as the national nonprofit Education Superhighway’s free “Affordable Connectivity Program Certification” course to help build a local corps of Digital Navigators. This Digital Navigator Corps will help residents learn about and apply for existing federal benefits that can be applied toward personal devices and monthly internet costs.
Develop public-private partnerships with area corporations, computer refurbishers, and social services organizations to create a “2nd Life” supply chain that can rehabilitate and repurpose gently used computers for use in households that lack devices.
Incentivize the development of training and support programs within regional anchor institutions through a mix of federal and state funding packages, workforce development incentives, and space-sharing benefits.
Currently, each key action area has a committee group assigned to it. Committee members draw their ideas from sector experience, professional relationships with communities, and public service experience. Each committee is asked to listen and collect input from the public based on the belief that representing all voices is a necessary starting point for all digital equity work.
PDEC was announced in September 2022 by County Executive Rich Fitzgerald and City of Pittsburgh Mayor Ed Gainey. It is a working group of large and small organizations in Allegheny County that endeavor to promote digital equity using their intimate knowledge of the region's digital needs across a variety of communities. The coalition will produce and implement a 5-year plan to address the digital divide in Allegheny County by the end of 2027.
PDEC Awarded Tech Community Leader of the Year by Technical.ly, Dec 2022(show below)
Pittsburgh, meet the winners of your 2022 Technical.ly Awards.
Tech Community Leader of the Year — Pittsburgh Digital Equity Commission
As a City of Pittsburgh-led initiative the Pittsburgh Digital Equity Commission is not just one person, but instead a collection of entities including the likes of the Greater Pittsburgh Digital Inclusion Alliance, Computer Reach and University of Pittsburgh. All of the dozen or so partners are seeking to ensure that every Pittsburgher has access to the digital world.
Director Heidi Norman speaking at a Pittsburgh Digital Equity Coalition press conference.
View Technical.ly Article
City, County Announce Pittsburgh Digital Equity Coalition, Sept 2022(show below)
City, County Announce Pittsburgh Digital Equity Coalition
Coalition will create and implement a 5-year playbook to close the digital divide by 2027
PITTSBURGH – Today, City of Pittsburgh Mayor Ed Gainey and County Executive Rich Fitzgerald announced the Pittsburgh Digital Equity Coalition (PDEC), a working group of anchor organizations already working to promote digital equity and smaller community groups with intimate knowledge of the community need. The coalition will produce and implement a 5-year plan to close the digital divide in the region by the end of 2027.
“Our community always does its best when we work together, collaboratively, bringing all of our resources together to solve challenges, and the digital divide is no exception,” said County Executive Rich Fitzgerald. “We are grateful to the many organizations which have answered this call and will work with us to ensure that we are able to increase broadband access, particularly in senior, Black and Brown communities.”
“Today is a great day for the City of Pittsburgh and Allegheny County; today we break down silos and commit to a partnership to end the digital divide in our region by 2027,” said Mayor Ed Gainey. “Our transformation to an EDs and Meds economy, one that drives technological advances in robotics and medical engineering, will not leave anyone behind. We will work together, united – with the City, County, our foundations, nonprofits, and the private sector – with one mission: to connect our entire city and close the digital divide.”
In 2015, the City of Pittsburgh published the Roadmap for Inclusive Innovation which was underwritten by several grants and led by the Hillman Foundation. The Roadmap resulted in opening communications and partnerships between city government, residents, and technology-oriented community groups along with sustained programs such as PGHLab, the Western Pennsylvania Regional Data Center, and participation in Bloomberg Philanthropies’ What Works Cities program. However, the local government has not engaged in sustained digital inclusion activities to directly close the digital divide for our residents. The increasing importance of online activities for residents during the pandemic now requires proactive leadership to close the digital divide across our region.
To address the gaps in digital skills, low-cost high-speed internet services, access to devices, and technical assistance, a coordinated effort led by County and City officials along with leaders from other anchor institutions will allow the Pittsburgh region to submit well-rounded applications for enough funding to make digital equity a reality in the years to come.
PDEC’s strategy to close the digital divide will focus on achieving: 1. Reliable, robust broadband internet for all residents at a price point they can afford; 2. Access to a computing device that meets the needs of the end-users; 3. Digital skills to safely and securely use the internet for resident needs; and 4. Accessible technical support when technology breaks.
The PDEC is comprised of the City of Pittsburgh, Allegheny County, Pittsburgh Public Schools, Allegheny County Housing Authority, Housing Authority of the City of Pittsburgh, Neighborhood Allies, Literacy Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh Regional Transit, the University of Pittsburgh, Meta Mesh Wireless Communities, the Greater Pittsburgh Digital Inclusion Alliance, Computer Reach, United Way of Southwestern Pennsylvania, Carnegie Library of Pittsburgh, and A+ Schools.
Organizations involved in the Pittsburgh Digital Equity Coalition will come together every few weeks to build a detailed playbook for closing the digital divide in Pittsburgh in 5 years. The playbook will: 1. describe the history of the digital divide in Pittsburgh, including our unique challenges; 2. map the great work that has already been done by our local organizations, big and small; 3. outline actions that we must all take to ensure everyone has access to affordable internet service, user-relevant computers, and the skills to safely and securely use the internet; and 4. set the stage to apply for federal digital equity grant dollars to make the plan a reality.
The PDEC expects to publish its five-year plan in the 2nd quarter of 2023.
jasujazumdinski
PDEC Strategic Plan Publication Event
Information Resources
Southwestern Pennsylvania Commission dashboard
Brookings Institution: How broadband can deliver health and equity to all communities
American Economic Association: Wired and Hired: Employment Effects of Subsidized Broadband Internet for Low-Income Americansz
Southwestern Pennsylvania Commission Connectivity Roadmap
National Digital Inclusion Alliance: Definitions
National Library Association: Digital Literacy
H.R. 3684 – Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act
SpotlightPA: The Disconnect – An obscure state law has snarled efforts to bring faster internet speeds to rural communities, Now it might complicate a historic infusion of federal funding
Census Bureau: Quick Facts – Pittsburgh
EducationWeek: Acting FCC Chair “The ‘Homework Gap’ Is an ‘Especially Cruel’ Reality During the Pandemic
Pew Research Center: Digital divide persists even as Americans with lower incomes make gains in tech adoption
ACM Digital Library: Can Anybody Help Me?: Using Community Help Desk Call Records to Examine the Impact of Digital Divides During a Global Pandemic
last updated: 04/24/2025
Back to top
Ready
jasujazumdinski