opens in new tab or window
In This Section
City Planning  - About City Planning
City Planning Meeting Calendar
City Planning Public Notices
Commissions and Boards
Historic Preservation Program
Public Art Program
Neighborhood Planning
Master & Neighborhood Plans    - Sheraden Park Master Plan
South Side Park Master Plan
Ecoinnovation District
Greater Hazelwood Neighborhood Plan
Greater Hill District Master Plan
Homewood Community Plan
Manchester Chateau Neighborhood Plan
The Oakland Plan
City Planning Projects
City Planning Programs
Development Review Process Guides
Mobility and Infrastructure
Permits, Licenses, and Inspections
Digital Equity In Pittsburgh
Small Business Resources
Public Works
Zoning
Geographic Information Systems, Mapping & Open Data
Procurement
PGH Lab
Sustainability
Greater Hazelwood Neighborhood Plan
What’s in the Plan
 The Greater Hazelwood Neighborhood Plan focuses on ways to strengthen and improve the community while proactively preparing for future growth and change. Greater Hazelwood’s Plan is distinct in its clear objective: Develop without displacement. As the neighborhood continues to evolve, the community will use its Plan to ensure it remains an inclusive, family-friendly neighborhood that recognizes that its' greatest asset is its' people.
The document is organized into five chapters. The Community, Development, Mobility and Infrastructure chapters each identify corresponding priorities, and each priority includes a series of strategies.
Download the entire plan(PDF, 18MB), or go through the tabs below to read descriptions of and download individual chapters.
jasujazumdinski
The Greater Hazelwood Neighborhood Plan Adopted by Planning Commission
After years of work, the Plan went to Planning Commission for a public hearing on November 5, 2019. The plan was unanimously adopted by the commission.
Thank You for Your Comments
Thank you for your feedback on the Plan! The public comment period closed the first week of October. We received over 240 comments from a variety of Greater Hazelwood community members. Respondents also helped us to order the priorities in each Chapter. See the final version of the Plan(PDF, 18MB)!
Draft that was made available for public comment(PDF, 43MB)
Suggested edits and staff response(PDF, 186KB)
jasujazumdinski
Thanks for coming to the Community Unveiling Event!
More than 130 people joined the Department of City Planning and partners on Monday, September 16, at the Advanced Robotics for Manufacturing Institute at Mill 19 to learn about and give feedback on the proposed Greater Hazelwood Neighborhood Plan. We asked participants to identify their top three priorities for each chapter, as well as to join an Action Team. The presentation of the Plan to Planning Commission was only the beginning of the work to be done to implement the plan and make it come alive.
Neighborhood Plan Announcement on Vimeo
Greater Hazelwood's North Star Vision Statement(show below)
“Greater Hazelwood is a diverse and welcoming community for people of all incomes and backgrounds. Our future is driven by the leadership of community residents, resulting in a community with thriving families and households; affordable, high-quality residential options; family-sustaining career opportunities; successful business and business owners; and a fully-integrated Hazelwood Green.
Our community fosters opportunities to build generational wealth and community health to ensure current and future generations benefit from the neighborhood’s growth and prosperity. We build strong partnerships with stakeholders throughout the region, while protecting and celebrating the unique landscape, history, culture and spirit of Greater Hazelwood.”
The community drafted its North Star Vision Statement as the foundation of its planning process, to serve as a beacon and reference point throughout the plan’s development. With it, Greater Hazelwood recognizes that development is but one component of greater community improvement and makes clear its Vision for a diverse, thriving neighborhood that welcomes new neighbors and investments while lifting up its existing residents and stakeholders.
Introduction & Project Process(show below)
This section reviews document structure and the public process that was employed to inform the Neighborhood Plan.
Introduction Chapter(, 0B)
Community(show below)
This chapter focuses on understanding the neighborhood’s existing demographics and needs, housing concerns (including affordability), education, employment, public health and safety, and cultural heritage and public art.
Priorities
Address barriers to further education / training and employment.
Prepare residents for employment opportunities.
Increase residents’ housing security.
Design opportunities to foster community in Greater Hazelwood.
Address the neighborhood’s rates of addiction; and high rates of asthma, diabetes, depression, and anxiety.
Promote physical activity in Greater Hazelwood.
Address crime / perception of crime in the neighborhood.
Community Chapter(, 0B)
Development(show below)
The Development chapter establishes the agenda for physical change to the neighborhood, including infill in both residential areas and the Second Avenue commercial corridor. It examines existing zoning and land use and makes recommendations for zoning changes, infill development, integration with Hazelwood Green, accessibility, sustainable design, and economic development.
Priorities
Complete a zoning review analysis and strategy.
Determine and achieve an affordability goal for Greater Hazelwood.
Develop a strategy to address vacant properties.
Motivate community-led and –driven development.
Create Greater Hazelwood-specific Design Principles / Guidelines / Standards.
Prevent displacement through innovative, affordable, and targeted housing.
Integrate public art into infrastructure improvement.
Create a strategy to enhance the Second Avenue commercial corridor.
Make Greater Hazelwood into a hub for entrepreneurs and small businesses.
Support and grow local business-to-business service providers.
Maximize resident opportunities associated with Hazelwood Green.
Development Chapter(, 0B)
Mobility(show below)
The Mobility chapter focuses on how people move to, through, and around the neighborhood. It looks at current strengths and shortcomings, and recommends strategic improvements to transit service and stations; pedestrian access, safety, and circulation; bicycle infrastructure; traffic safety; and parking.
Priorities
Calm through-traffic.
Address gaps in multi-modal network throughout the community.
Ensure residents have access to high-quality transit that increases economic opportunity and supports everyday needs.
Improve neighborhood walkability and bikeability.
Mobility Chapter(, 0B)
Infrastructure(show below)
The Infrastructure chapter will examine stormwater, neighborhood tree canopy, air quality and neighborhood heat, and the neighborhood’s greenway.
Priorities
Improve the quality of Greater Hazelwood’s green spaces.
Strengthen Greater Hazelwood’s food infrastructure.
Improve air quality in Greater Hazelwood: Local and Regional.
Mitigate environmental lead and other hazardous elements / materials.
Decrease combined sewer overflow.
Encourage new development throughout the neighborhood to go green.
Infrastructure Chapter(, 0B)
Implementation(show below)
The Implementation chapter identifies whether strategies are policies, programs, or projects; a timeline for completion; and partners who can assist.
Implementation Chapter(, 0B)
last updated: 04/23/2025
Back to top
Ready
jasujazumdinski