Skip to main content
opens in new tab or window
In This Section

City Planning
Mobility and Infrastructure
Permits, Licenses, and Inspections  - Applications &amp; Forms
OneStopPGH
Permits
Licenses
Bulletins
Community Resources
Code Enforcement
Condemned Buildings
PLI Fees    - Fee Calculator
Building Codes
Appeals
PLI Contacts
Announcements
Registrations
Digital Equity In Pittsburgh
Small Business Resources
Public Works
Zoning
Geographic Information Systems, Mapping &amp; Open Data
Procurement
PGH Lab
Sustainability

PLI Fees
Download PLI's Current Fee Schedule(PDF, 204KB)
The cost of a permit will now be calculated based on the total construction value of the project. For more info, please download the Fee Schedule or use our Permit Fee Calculator. Please note, if the construction value changes between the time of application and permit issuance, the total cost of your permit may also change.
The fee schedule allows PLI to offer expedited plan review services at the Department’s discretion. Due to current capacity, expedited review is only offered for Fire Alarm and Fire Suppression permit types. PLI will give notice when this service is slated to become available.
Fees can be paid online via the OneStop portal with a credit card or eCheck, or in person at the OneStopPGH Counter at 412 Blvd of the Allies with a credit card, physical check, money order, or cashier’s check. Please note that we cannot accept payment via mail, nor can we accept cash under any circumstances. Physical checks, money orders, and cashier’s checks must be made out to “Treasurer - City of Pittsburgh.” Please also note that all credit card and eCheck transactions will generate a small processing fee.
Permit Fee Calculator
Zoning Fees may apply. Please consult the Zoning Fee Schedule.

Effective October 25, 2017, the fees collected for the Pennsylvania code official training fund (SEFT fees) have increased from $4.00 to $4.50. Governor Wolf signed Act 37 of 2017 authorizing the increase of fees collected by municipalities administering and enforcing construction or building permits in accordance with the Pennsylvania Construction Code Act.
last updated: 06/09/2025
Back to top
Ready
jasujazumdinski