opens in new tab or window
PGH Lab
Open side Menu
Home
Benefits
Alumni
FAQ
Contact Us
Program Rules & Regulations
FAQ
General
What does it mean to “pilot” a product or service with the City of Pittsburgh?(show below)
A pilot with PGH Lab is a 6-month long contract engagement to test a company’s product or service within a city department. The goal is to assess how well the solution works in a municipal environment, gather data, and determine whether it has potential for broader implementation.
What benefits do startups and entrepreneurs receive?(show below)
Participants gain hands-on experience as vendors in a government setting, receive direct feedback from city department decision-makers, and receive a $25,000 stipend over the course of the engagement.
What is the duration of the PGH Lab program?(show below)
Pilots are 6 months long with projects kicking off in January and concluding at the end of June. A wrap-up event will take place in July.
What is expected of participating companies during the pilot?(show below)
Participants must actively engage with their assigned city department, conduct their pilot as outlined in their proposal, provide progress updates, and participate in program events.
Application Process
How can I apply for PGH Lab?(show below)
The application opens once per year in the fall – usually mid-September - and remains open for 4 weeks. The application is accessed through the City’s OpenGov procurement portal and application announcement updates can be found on the PGH Lab LinkedIn page or departmental X (twitter).
How are applications evaluated?(show below)
Applications are reviewed by a selection committee that evaluates the potential impact, risk, feasibility, and alignment of each proposal with the city’s needs. Selected companies will be invited to a pitch competition for the second phase of evaluation before final selections are made.
What companies are eligible to participate in PGH Lab?(show below)
PGH Lab is open to startups and small businesses located in Pittsburgh, PA with a functional product or service that is ready for use by City stakeholders. Priority is given to solutions that align with the City of Pittsburgh’s focus areas, including environmental sustainability, public engagement, health and safety, and general civic tech innovation.
Can I apply if my company has participated in PGH Lab before?(show below)
Yes, previous participants are welcome to reapply. However, preference may be given to first-time participants.
jasujazumdinski
After the Program
What happens after my pilot ends?(show below)
Companies share their findings in a wrap-up meeting and receive feedback from city stakeholders. There is a wrap-up event in July to celebrate the completion of the program.
All companies who complete their PGH Lab pilot become Alumni of the program and will receive periodic communication and event invites from the program managers.
Can my company continue working with the City of Pittsburgh after PGH Lab?(show below)
If the pilot is successful, aligns with city needs, and the participating department has availability in their budget, there may be opportunities for further engagement or procurement discussions at the discretion of the partnering department.
Miscellaneous
I have more questions. How can I contact the PGH Lab team?(show below)
Please feel free to email us at pghlab@pittsburghpa.gov
I have a business idea, but I don’t know how to move it forward. Can you help?(show below)
PGH Lab only accepts applicants with products or services that are ready for testing. For more information on how to start a business, please see the resources below:
SBA.gov \| 10 steps to start your business
DCED.PA.gov \| How to register a business in Pennsylvania
Small Business Resources
last updated: 08/20/2025
Back to top
Ready
jasujazumdinski