RULES OF COUNCIL
THE CITY OF PITTSBURGH
Pittsburgh City Council
R e v i s e d M a y 2 0 2 5
RULES OF COUNCIL
I. RULES
SECTION 1. PURPOSE; PROCEDURAL AUTHORITY. These rules shall govern the proceedings of City Council in conducting business of the City of Pittsburgh. “Robert’s Rules of Order” shall be adopted as parliamentary authority for all procedure not expressly set forth in these rules. The words “City Council,” “Council,” and “Council as a Body” are used interchangeably throughout these Rules. All pronouns and any variations thereof shall be deemed to refer to the masculine, feminine, neuter, singular or plural, as the identity of the person or entity may require.
SECTION 2. SUSPENSION OF RULES. No rule shall be suspended except by an affirmative vote of two-thirds of the Council Members elected and such vote shall be taken without debate
SECTION 3. AMENDMENT OF RULES. No rule of the Council shall be amended or changed, except by a majority vote of the Council Members elected thereto, and after one week's previous notice to the Council Members in writing of such change desired to be affected.
II.ORGANIZATION
SECTION 1. ORGANIZATIONAL MEETING.
A. At its organization meeting held on the first meeting of a new legislative-term, or thereafter, Council shall, by a majority vote of all Council Members, elect one member to serve as Council President and one member to serve as President Pro Tempore for the ensuing term.
B. Once elected, the Council President shall appoint a Council Member to Chair each of the Standing Committees set forth in Rule IV.
C. Every five years, the Council shall review the Rules of Council and amend as necessary.
jasujazumdinski
SECTION 2. OFFICERS AND DUTIES.
A. Council President
i. Council President shall at Regular Meetings:
a) Preserve order and decorum,
b) Name the Council Member who shall speak when two or more Members address the Council President at the same time,
c) Limit discussion by Council Members so that no member speaks more than once on an agenda item until every other member choosing to speak has spoken,
d) Decide all questions by Order subject to appeal to the Council by any two Members.
ii. Council President shall at Standing Committee Meetings chair the meeting if the Chair of the Committee on Finance and Law is absent.
B. Chair of Committee on Finance and Law
i. Chair shall, at Standing Committee Meetings:
a) Preserve order and decorum,
b) Name the Council Member who shall speak when two or more Members address the Chair of Committee on Finance and Law at the same time,
c) Limit discussion by Council Members so that no member speaks more than once on an agenda item until every other member choosing to speak has spoken, and
d) Decide all questions by Order subject to appeal to the Council by any two Council Members.
C. President Pro-Tempore
i. The President Pro-Tempore shall chair any Regular Meeting for which the President is absent.
ii. The President Pro-Tempore shall chair any Standing Committee Meeting for which the Chair of the Committee on Finance and Law, and Council President are both absent.
iii. Approves invoices submitted by the Council President.
jasujazumdinski
D. Clerk
i. The Clerk of Council shall prepare for each Committee meeting at least five days before such meeting, a calendar list of all matters that have been submitted to Council and that are un-disposed of, giving a statement of the present condition of each resolution or ordinance, and of any action that has been taken thereon; and shall furnish the same to each Council Member at the meeting of the Committee.
ii. The Clerk of Council shall keep a journal whereon shall be bulletined all bills, ordinances or resolutions as received by the Clerk, as well as the course of procedure, and final disposition of such, which journal shall be open to all.
jasujazumdinski
E. Parliamentarian
i. The City Solicitor, or her designee, or the Solicitor to City Council, shall serve as Parliamentarian to Council to provide advice and compliance assistance with Robert’s Rules of Order on conducting Council meetings. A Parliamentarian advises on appropriate parliamentary procedure in specific circumstances such as necessary motions, advising on points-of-order, questions of quorum, etc.
ii. Questions other than those relating to Robert’s Rules of Order, relating to the Sunshine Act, legal interpretations or legal impressions of other relevant laws and regulations governing Council legislative meetings, Executive Sessions, or quasi-judicial proceedings held by Council are beyond the scope of Parliamentarian and involve the practice of law and shall be directed to the City Solicitor, or her designee, or the Solicitor to City Council for an opinion on the record, or in writing.
III. MEETINGS
SECTION 1. MEETINGS, GENERALLY.
A. Regular Meetings. The Regular Meetings of Council shall be held on Tuesday at 10:00 a.m. at least fifty weeks during the calendar year. Regular Meetings shall meet in such order as provided in Rule V, unless otherwise scheduled by a majority vote of Council.
B. Standing Committee Meetings. All Standing Committees of Council shall meet on Wednesday of each of the weeks during which Regular Meetings of Council are held or on such succeeding days as the committee may determine by majority vote of Council. All Standing Committee meetings shall begin at 10:00 a.m. Committees shall meet in such order as provided in Rule IV
C. Special meetings. Special meetings are a separate session of Council held at a time different from that of any Regular Meetings or Standing Committee meetings, and convened only to consider business specified in the call of the meetings. The purpose of a Special Meeting is to deal with matters arising between Regular Meetings or Standing Committee meetings, but that require action by Council before the next Regular Meeting or Standing Committee meeting. Special meetings of Council shall be called by the Clerk at the order of the President, or of any Chair of a Standing Committees of Council, or of onethird of all Council Members, or of the Mayor. However, such call shall be in writing, shall specify the purposes for which the call was made, shall be signed by the parties ordering the call and shall be entered by the Clerk in the minute books for Council meetings. The Clerk shall give written notice to the Council Members of any Special meeting not less than twenty-four hours prior to such meeting.
D. Post-Agenda Meetings. Post-Agenda Meetings are information gathering sessions sponsored by City Council. Specific guests are invited, at the request of the Council Member who called the meeting, to share their expertise with Council on target subject. The format of Post Agenda meetings are determined by the Chair of the meeting. PostAgendas are open to the public. There is, however, no public comment period. Any Council Member can request a Post-Agenda Meeting by making a motion at any Regular Meeting or Standing Committee meeting of Council, receiving a second and an affirmative vote of a majority of Council Members present.
E. Public Hearings. Public Hearings are called in order to receive input from the public. They can be called by a valid petition, by City Council, or by statutory mandate. Public Hearings are further defined in Rule VI.
F. Executive Sessions. According to State Law, Executive Sessions are defined as follows: i. Purpose. Council may hold a meeting from which the public is excluded for one or more of the purposes as defined in State law.
a) To discuss any matter involving the employment, appointment, termination of employment, terms and conditions of employment, evaluation of performance, promotion or disciplining of any specific prospective public officer or employee or current public officer or employee employed or appointed by the Council, or former public officer or employee, provided, however, that the individual employees or appointees whose rights could be adversely affected may request, in writing, that the matter or matters be discussed at an open meeting. The Council's decision to discuss such matters in Executive Session shall not serve to adversely affect the due process rights granted by law, including those granted by State law. The provisions of this paragraph shall not apply to any meeting involving the appointment or selection of any person to fill a vacancy in any elected office.
b) To hold information, strategy and negotiation sessions related to the negotiation or arbitration of a collective bargaining agreement or, in the absence of a collective bargaining unit, related to labor relations and arbitration.
c) To consider the purchase or lease of real property up to the time an option to purchase or lease the real property is obtained or up to the time an agreement to purchase or lease such property is obtained if the agreement is obtained directly without an option.
d) To consult with its attorney or other professional advisor regarding information or strategy in connection with litigation or with issues on which identifiable complaints are expected to be filed.
e) To review and discuss Council business which, if conducted in public, would violate a lawful privilege or lead to the disclosure of information or confidentiality protected by law, including matters related to the initiation and conduct of investigations of possible or certain violations of the law and quasi-judicial deliberations.
ii. Attendance. Council may admit to an Executive Session persons necessary to carry out the purpose of the meeting. The persons may include, but are not limited to, Council staff, legal, and technical advisors, as well as individuals and their representatives who may be affected by matters to be discussed at an Executive Session. Council may also meet with auditors and legislative investigatory committees in an Executive Session.
iii. Procedure. An Executive Session may be held during an open meeting, at the conclusion of an open meeting or may be announced for a future time at an open meeting. If Council conducts an Executive Session which was not announced at an open meeting, the Council shall give each of its Council Members at least 24 hours’ notice in advance of the time of the meeting unless all of the Council Members by unanimous agreement waive the requirement for the notice.
iv. Notice. At the open meeting occurring immediately prior or subsequent to an Executive Session, the Council shall announce and include within its minutes, the date, time, location and purpose of the Executive Session. The purpose of an Executive Session may be explained by a general reference to the types or categories of subjects discussed at the session and need not identify with specificity persons or matters considered during the meeting.
v. Official action. Unless otherwise provided by law or exempt under State law (PA $\ S$ 1.59 relating to exemptions), a meeting at which a quorum of the Council Members take official action with regard to matters discussed at an Executive Session shall be open to the public.
vi. Minutes. The Council shall keep minutes of each Executive Session in the same manner required by State law (relating to minutes) for open meetings. The minutes of Executive Sessions do not constitute records available for public inspection and copying. vii. Violation of Confidentiality. Any Council Member present at an Executive Session to have been found to divulge information determined to be attorney client privilege may be fined in an amount up to $$ 500$ , with the approval of a majority of Council Members, and/or censured by a vote of a majority of Council Members. The fine and/or censuring shall be acted on during a Council Meeting and shall be consistent with State law, Roberts Rules of Order, and the Rules of Council.
G. Briefings or Informational Sessions. Briefings, presentations, or informational sessions may take place with individuals or a group of Council Members, provided that a quorum of Council Members are not present.
SECTION 2. QUORUM. A quorum shall consist of a majority of the Council Members elected. This applies to Standing Committees, Regular Meetings of Council, or Special Meetings of Council. A quorum shall not be required for Executive Session, Public Hearings, or Post-Agenda meetings.
SECTION 3. MEMBERS’ ATTENDANCE. Any Council Member not present at any Regular, Standing Committee, or duly called Special Meeting of Council shall be fined the sum of twenty dollars ($20.00), unless excused by the Council for sickness or other unavoidable causes, and any such fine or fines imposed shall be deducted from the salary of such offending Council Member. Council Members may participate and vote by telephone or video conference at public meetings in lieu of physical presence. Participation in a Regular, Standing Committee, or Special meeting by phone shall be permitted when Council Members are unable to be physically present at a meeting due to illness or disability, travel for City business, or, family or other major emergency. Telephone-only attendance of a Council Member for purposes of voting on a quasi-judicial matter at a Council meeting is prohibited. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Council Members shall be permitted to participate in any Council meeting, including quasi-judicial proceedings, by videoconference platform supplied by the City for such purposes.
jasujazumdinski
SECTION 4. PUBLIC ATTENDANCE.
A. Open Meetings. All meetings of Council and committees shall be open to the public, subject to the right of Council to establish an enclosure beyond which passage may be limited to the Council Members, officers and staff of Council, the Mayor, City Controller, heads of departments, and persons assigned to duty by the President and subject to the regulation of cameras, lights, and recording and transmitting equipment so as not to interfere with the orderly conduct of Council.
B. Persons Invited to the Council Table. No person shall be heard or seated at the Council table unless invited by the Chair of the Committee in session and with the unanimous consent of the Council Members present.
C. Public Comment.
i. In compliance with Pennsylvania Act 93 of 1998, opportunity for comment by residents or taxpayers of the City will be provided as the first order of business at any Regular, Standing Committee or Special meetings of Council after roll call and adoption of the agenda.
ii. City Council’s public comment period is a limited public forum and comments by residents or taxpayers are appropriately limited to matters of concern, official action, or deliberation which are or may be before Council. Unless determined otherwise by a majority of Council Members present, public comment is limited to three (3) minutes per individual. Commenters must state their name and neighborhood before they provide comments.
iii. Members of the public are responsible to deliver their comments in such manner as to not breach the order and decorum of City Council. Breaches of decorum include but are not necessarily limited to shouting, use of profanity or vulgarity, or speaking outside of allotted time. In addition, public comment may not be used for belligerent or abusive behavior including true threats, fighting words, or incitements to imminent lawless action.
iv. The Chair is charged with maintaining order and decorum during public comment and may interrupt a speaker to warn or direct an individual accordingly. If a commenter disobeys a directive from the Chair, the Chair may utilize any available remedies in accordance with applicable law or Robert’s Rules of Order to maintain order and decorum in Council chambers.
v. After the comment period in a Council meeting has ended, if a resolution or ordinance is added to the agenda or amended to make its substance differ, residents or taxpayers shall be provided an additional opportunity to comment on the addition or amendment before a final vote is taken. In the event there is not sufficient time for comment, Council may defer the comment period as permitted by Act 93 of 1998.
vi. The public comment period shall be recorded.
jasujazumdinski
IV. STANDING COMMITTEES
SECTION 1. There shall be the following Standing Committees.
A. Committee on Finance and Law, which shall have the charge of and jurisdiction over all ordinances, resolutions, bills, papers and other matters relating to:
i. Bond and Debt Issuance
ii. City Banking/ Investment
iii. Creation of Offices or Positions of any kind
iv. Department of Finance
v. Enterprise Resource System
vi. Equal Opportunity Review Commission (EORC) vii. Ethics viii. Law Department ix. Multi-year Capital Improvement Program x. Office of Management and Budget, Operating & Capital Divisions xi. Pension Fiscal xii. Real Estate xiii. Taxation xiv. Treasurer
B. Committee on Public Safety and Wellness, which shall have charge of and jurisdiction over all ordinances, resolutions, bills, papers and other matters of every kind pertaining to:
i. Bureau of Animal Control ii. Bureau of Fire iii. Bureau of Police iv. Citizens Police Review Board (CPRB) v. Department of Public Safety vi. Emergency Management Agency (EMA) vii. Emergency Medical Services (EMS) viii. Emergency Operations and Communications ix. Homeland Security
C. Committee on Public Works and Infrastructure, which shall have charge of and jurisdiction over all ordinances, resolutions, bills, or papers affecting or pertaining to:
i. Construction and maintenance of Public Works ii. Department of Mobility and Infrastructure iii. Department of Public Works, and the Bureaus of:
a) b) Bureau of Administration Bureau of Operations c) Bureau of Environmental Services d) Bureau of Transportation & Engineering iv. Facilities Operation and Maintenance (Not Parks or Recreation related)
v. Forestry & Shade Tree Commission vi. Public Right-of-Way management vii. Public Right-of-Way maintenance viii. Streets Lighting
D. Committee on Human Resources, which shall have charge of and jurisdiction over all ordinances, resolutions, bills, or papers affecting or pertaining to:
i. Benefits ii. Department of Personnel and Civil Service iii. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC)
iv. Human Relations Commission (HRC) v. Job Training Partnership Act (JTPA)/Pittsburgh Partnership/Workforce Investment Act (WIA)
vi. Office of Municipal Investigation (OMI)
vii. Payroll Administration/System
viii. Pension Benefits Administration
ix. Personnel (inclusive of Salaries and Employment Numbers)
E. Committee on Land Use and Economic Development, which shall have charge of and jurisdiction over all ordinances, resolutions, bills, or papers affecting or pertaining to:
i. Art Commission ii. Community Development Block Grants (CDBG) iii. Conditional Use Permits iv. Department of Community Affairs (DCA) funding v. Department of Community and Economic Development (DCED) funding vi. Department of City Planning vii. Department of Permits, Licenses, and Inspections (PLI) viii. Mapping and GIS ix. Historic Review Commission x. Market Based Revenue Opportunities (MBRO) xi. Neighborhood Initiatives xii. Riverfront Development xiii. Small Business Initiatives xiv. Transportation Planning xv. Zoning xvi. Sustainability Initiatives
F. Committee on Recreation, Youth, and Senior Services, which shall have charge of and jurisdiction over all ordinances, resolutions, bills or papers pertaining to
i. Department of Parks and Recreation ii. Greenways iii. Libraries iv. Park Programming v. Recreation Facilities Maintenance vi. Senior Centers and Programming vii. Special Events viii. Trails ix. Youth Policy
G. Committee on Innovation, Performance, Asset Management, and Technology, which shall have charge of and jurisdiction over all ordinances, resolutions, bills, papers and other matters relating to:
i. 311 Response Center ii. Cable Bureau
iii. City Asset Inventory & Management
iv. Department of Innovation and Performance (I&P) v. Facilities Inventory and Management
vi. Fleet Maintenance, Repair and Alteration
vii. Purchasing and Contracts
viii. Information Technology
ix. Data collection and analysis x. Operational Performance Targets
H. Committee on Intergovernmental and Educational Affairs, which shall have charge of and jurisdiction over all ordinances, resolutions, bills, or papers affecting or pertaining to:
i. Allegheny Regional Assets District (ARAD) ii. Authorities –Agreements iii. County iv. Congress of Neighboring Communities (CONNECT) v. Federal vi. Local governmental cooperation agreements vii. Quasi-governmental cooperation agreements viii. Liquor Licenses ix. Pennsylvania Municipal League x. Port of Pittsburgh xi. School Boards xii. State xiii. Tourism-Visit Pittsburgh
I. Committee on Hearings and Policy (held by the President of Council), which shall have charge of the jurisdiction and scheduling of:
i. Appointments and Reappointments ii. Executive Sessions iii. Post-Agenda Meetings iv. Public Hearings v. Public Meetings vi. Special Committees vii. Special Meetings
If any ordinances, resolutions, bills, papers and other matters could be under the jurisdiction of multiple committees, the City Clerk shall use their best judgement as to which committee to assign.
SECTION 2. STANDING COMMITTEE ORDER OF BUSINESS. At the hour appointed for the Standing Committee meeting of Council, the Chairperson of the Committee on Finance and Law shall take the chair, and the Clerk shall proceed to call the roll and note the absentees, and no Council Member shall depart without leave from the Chairperson. When the roll is called, either in Council or in committee, the name of the presiding officer shall be called last. In the absence of the Chairperson, the President of Council, and the President ProTempore, the Council Members shall elect a temporary Chairperson to chair that meeting, provided there be a quorum present. Should no quorum attend within thirty minutes after the hour appointed for the meeting, the Council shall thereupon stand adjourned, and all absentees shall be fined in accordance with Rule III, Section 3 hereof.
A. The order of business at all Standing Committee Meetings of Council shall be as follows: i. Roll Call ii. Council shall by majority vote move to adopt the agenda posted twenty-four hours in advance of the meeting. Council may by majority vote move to amend the agenda as needed before adoption. Council shall announce the purpose for amendment of the agenda prior to the vote to amend. iii. Comments from residents or taxpayers in accordance with Rule III(4)(c). iv. Standing Committees in the order in which they are listed above. v. Announcements.
jasujazumdinski
SECTION 3. SEATING AT STANDING COMMITTEE MEETINGS
Seating during Standing Committee meetings shall be at the Council Table, and shall be organized as follows:
A. The Chairperson of the Committee on Finance and Law shall sit at the head of the Council table.
B. The President of City Council, who is also the chair of the Committee on Hearings, shall sit to the right of the Finance Chair.
C. The President Pro-Tempore, who may be the chair of any of the other Committees, shall sit to the right of the President.
SECTION 4. PROCEDURE FOR STANDING COMMITTEES
A. Each Standing Committee shall have charge and jurisdiction over all ordinances, resolutions, bills, papers and matter relating to those subjects enumerated above and such other business as may be referred to it by the Council.
B. Each Standing Committee shall be composed of all of the Council Members. The Chairperson of each committee shall be designated by the President of Council to serve for the same term or length or term for which the President of Council is elected.
C. The Rules of Council, as far as applicable, shall govern all committees of Council. D. Committees will meet in the order set forth above, except as otherwise provided by order of Council or any Committee thereof.
E. All votes shall be taken via voice, unless the yeas and nays shall be required otherwis by law or demanded by any member.
F. The yeas and nays may be demanded on any question at any time before the next business is taken up.
jasujazumdinski
V. REGULAR MEETINGS
SECTION 1. REGULAR MEETING ORDER OF BUSINESS. At the hour appointed for the meeting of Council, the President shall take the chair, and the Clerk shall proceed to call the roll and note the absentees, and no Council Member shall depart without leave from the President. When the roll is called, either in Council or in committee, the name of the presiding officer shall be called last. In the absence of the President and the President Pro-Tempore, and provided there be a quorum present, the current chairpersons of the following Standing Committees, in the following order, shall preside: Committee on Finance and Law, and in their absence, Committee on Public Safety Services, and in their absence, Committee on Public Works and Infrastucture, and in their absence, Committee on Human Resources. Should no quorum attend within thirty minutes after the hour appointed for the meeting, the Council shall thereupon stand adjourned, and all absentees shall be fined in accordance with Rule III, Section 3 hereof.
A. The order of business at all stated Regular Meetings of Council shall be as follows: i. Roll Call. ii. Council shall by majority vote move to adopt the agenda posted twentyfour hours in advance of the meeting. Council may by majority vote move to amend the agenda as needed before adoption. Council shall announce the purpose for amendment of the agenda prior to the vote to amend. iii. Comments from residents or taxpayers in accordance with Rule III(4)(c). iv. Presentation of petitions, letters, memorials, remonstrances, proclamations, and ordinances, which may be referred to the appropriate committees, or otherwise disposed of, without debate.
a. Council Members shall have the right to confer proclamations upon any person or organization, recognizing them for an outstanding skill, service, or accomplishment, with the approval of the majority of City Council. Council Members shall also have the right to present proclamations directly to their recipients during a Regular meeting of City Council, however such presentations shall be limited to three (3) presentations per Council Member per Regular Meeting.
v. Presentation of papers.
vi. Unfinished business.
vii. Reports from Standing Committees.
viii. Reports from Special committees.
ix. Motions and resolutions.
x. Reading, correction and approval of the minutes of previous meeting or meetings where the same may not have been already read, corrected and approved shall be the last order of business.
The order of business at Special Meetings shall be the same as in the case of stated meetings, except the special business for which the meetings have been called shall be first considered. The reading, correction and approval of the minutes of previous meetings, not already read, correct and approved shall be the last order of business.
jasujazumdinski
SECTION 2. PROCEDURE FOR REGULAR MEETINGS
A. The title of every bill proposing an ordinance or resolution shall be read when presented for final vote. Any such bill shall be read at length when any Council Members shall so request.
B. Any such bill may be amended at any time before final passage.
C. All amendments made to any bill proposing an ordinance or resolution shall be printed for the use of Council Members before the final vote is taken on the bill.
D. Council Members shall not be permitted to conduct discussion on a bill during voting, or to explain their vote, except where a Council Member may be allowed explain a vote of “abstain.”
E. When any bill, upon its final passage, received the votes of a majority of the Council Members present, but not a majority of those elected, such bill shall be considered as laid upon the table, and may be called up for further action, at the same or any subsequent meeting of Council.
F. All final action in adopting legislation shall be by roll call vote of Council Members, and shall be by yeas and nays, and unless otherwise provided by law, shall require at least five affirmative Council Member votes for final passage. The names of the persons voting for and against such bill shall be entered into the minutes of the meeting and the journal.
jasujazumdinski
VI. PUBLIC HEARINGS
SECTION 1. Public Hearings may be granted to petitioners and remonstrates and in any other matters affecting public business which are within the jurisdiction of the Council. Such hearings shall be held on the day and at such time as may be fixed by the President of Council. The President of Council shall preside, or assign another Council Member to preside, at all such hearings and shall arrange the calendar for same.
SECTION 2. No action or vote shall be taken on an ordinance, resolution, petition, remonstrance or communications at the time a hearing is held on the same.
SECTION 3. The President of Council shall schedule all Public Hearings for a date that is no more than 30 calendar days after a request is made by a majority of the Council Members or a valid Petition for a Public Hearing is received by the City Clerk. In the exceptional circumstances when a Public Hearing within 30 days does not reasonably permit residents access and the right to be heard, the President shall schedule the Public Hearing as quickly thereafter as possible.
VII. SPECIAL COMMITTEES
SECTION 1. The President of Council may, from time to time, as conditions require, appoint Special committees to investigate any matters pertaining to the city business, which committees shall submit their reports in writing.
SECTION 2. All reports from Special committees shall be in writing and shall be signed by the Committee Chair or a majority of the Members thereof. All papers with which a report deals shall be returned with the report. Nothing in this rule shall be construed to prevent the introduction of minority reports.
SECTION 3. The President of Council shall be ex-officio member of all Special committees.
jasujazumdinski
VIII. LEGISLATION
SECTION 1. No bill shall be introduced in Council unless deposited with the Clerk of Council by 12:00 noon Friday prior to the Regular meeting of Council; but any Council Member may present any bill or paper notwithstanding said rule, so long as the introducing Council Member articulates an urgent reason, at the table and on the record, for the late introduction and obtains the consent of the majority of the Council Members present at the meeting of Council where the late bill is introduced. All bills deposited with the Clerk from the Mayor, City Council Members or a department of the City must have accompanying documentation as to purpose, history and fiscal impact in a manner prescribed by Ordinance, the Council Budget Office, and the President of Council. If any ordinances, resolutions, bills, papers and other matters could be under the jurisdiction of multiple committees, the Clerk shall use their best judgement as to which committee chair to assign as the introducing Council Member for purposes of depositing legislation with the Clerk. No legislation shall be introduced unless a Council Member is assigned as a sponsor and introducing Council Member.
A. Protocols for Legislation Sent from the Mayor’s Office to City Council. Except for legislation introduced directly by the Mayor under Section 208 of the Home Rule Charter, all legislation requires a Council Member to sponsor said legislation for introduction. The Chair of the appropriate Standing Committee should be assigned as an introducing Council Member. The Mayor’s Office shall make its best efforts to notify potential introducing Council Members of any such proposed legislation before depositing with the Clerk. Failure to notify potential introducing Council Members of any such proposed legislation can result in delayed introduction of, or refusal to introduce, said bill.
B. Quasi-judicial Proceedings. When acting on a matter subject to the Local Agency Law, Council shall conduct a hearing subject to the requirements of that law and City Code.
i. Notice of such hearings shall be provided to all parties consistent with the requirements of City Code;
ii. Parties shall be permitted the opportunity for reasonable examination and crossexamination of witnesses;
iii. Parties shall have the opportunity to stenographically record all hearings;
iv. Council shall issue a written record of its decision within 30 days of taking a final vote on a matter;
a) Where applicable, Council may adopt the findings, conclusions, and recommendations of the subordinate reviewing body in its decision; b) The decision shall be mailed to all parties upon execution.
SECTION 2. Any bill proposing an ordinance or resolution, or any other matter to come before Council shall be presented by a Council Member or, and shall, in open meeting, be read by the Clerk by title.
The Clerk shall refer such bills to the proper committee which committee may not consider such bill until the $8 ^ { \mathrm { t h } }$ calendar day following the meeting in which the bill is introduced, except that referral to a committee shall not be necessary in the case of any such bill which by law may be passed finally on the day of its introduction. Bills shall be printed and a copy delivered to the Council office of each Council Member at least forty-eight hours previous to a Regular meeting of Council, or where possible, twenty-four hours previous to a Special meeting of Council.
SECTION 3. Standing Committees may not consider any bill until the 8th calendar day following the meeting in which the bill is introduced.
SECTION 4. No bill proposing an ordinance or resolution shall be passed containing more than one subject, which shall be clearly expressed in its title.
jasujazumdinski
IX. MOTIONS
SECTION 1. DECORUM.
A. When any Council Members wish to speak, they shall motion to the Chair.
B. When two or more Council Members motion to speak at the same time, the Chair shall designate the one who shall speak first.
C. When recognized, the Council Member shall, in a courteous manner, confine comments to the question under debate.
D. The Council Member who sponsors a Bill, Resolution, or motion shall have the privilege of speaking first upon it.
E. If any Council Member transgresses the Rules of Council, the Chair shall or any Council Member may, through the Chair, call the member to order.
F. In order to preserve order and decorum, the Chair may entertain a motion from any Council Member to censure the member who is out of order. With a second and a majority vote, Council may express severe disapproval of the Council Member who is out of order. The motion to Censure shall be recorded in the meeting minutes and the journal.
SECTION 2. MOTIONS AND DEBATE.
A. Rules of Debate. i. The Chair shall:
a) Rigidly enforce all rules adopted for the government of Council;
b) Preserve order and decorum in debate;
c) Prevent personal reflections and confine Council Members to the question under discussion; and
d) Decide all questions of order, subject to appeal.
B. Motions. Motions shall be entertained in the order of precedence outlined in the 11th Edition of Robert's Rules of Order Newly Revised.