opens in new tab or window
In This Section
Police  - Police Zones
Police Officer Recruitment
File a Police Report
Submit a Tip
Submit a Silent Complaint
Compliment an Officer
Police Data Portal
Branches    - Operations Branch
Investigations Branch
Administration Branch
Special Deployment Division (SDD)
About Police
Fire
Animal Care & Control
Emergency Medical Services
Office of Community Health and Safety
Alerts
Public Safety
Special Deployment Division (SDD)
SDD consists of support units that provide specially trained and equipped officers citywide as well as for Region 13 of the Department of Homeland Security. All of the Specialty Units work closely with Federal, State and local law enforcement, as needed.
Office of Emergency Management and Homeland Security (OEMHS)(show below)
The Office of Emergency Management and Homeland Security is staffed by police liaisons that work in concert with the Bureaus of Fire and EMS to facilitate seamless interagency planning, coordination, and mission execution in the following areas:
Prevention
Protection
Mitigation
Response
Recovery
Emergency Management Liaisons are the Bureaus hands-on representatives for working with county, region, state, and federal partners to develop plans and provide resources for all hazards plans for disasters and large-scale events happening in the Region 13 area of responsibility.
Learn more about OEMHS. You can follow OEMHS on their Twitter and Facebook pages.
EOD (Bomb Squad)(show below)
The Bomb Squad is composed of technicians trained extensively by the F.B.I. to work through problems that consist of:
Improvised Explosive Devices (IED’s)
Render Safe Procedures
Weapons of Mass Destruction
The unit uses state of art technology, to include numerous robots and Explosive Detection K9’s. The team also has certified SCUBA divers capable of locating underwater hazardous devices and rendering them safe.
K9 Unit(show below)
The City of Pittsburgh utilizes specially trained K9’s and Handlers for a variety of tasks, including:
A Bloodhound used to search for endangered people
An Electronics Sniffing Dog (ESD) that can locate items containing computer chips
A Patrol K9 is trained to apprehend criminal offenders, locate criminal offenders that are hiding, and detect drugs or explosives.
The Handler and specially bred dogs go through an intensive 3-month training program at our K-9 Academy, and continue with monthly training and certification testing.
Mounted Patrol(show below)
Working on the Mounted Patrol is a very physically demanding job. The horses are between 16 to 18 hands tall and weigh between 1300 and 1800 pounds. Our officers patrol year-round in all weather conditions, in addition to the daily care and maintenance of the horses and stables. Officers are also responsible for the transportation and training of all horses, as well as maintaining the tack gear and equipment. You will often find them participating in outreach programs and community events in and around the City of Pittsburgh.
Public Safety Planning(show below)
The Planning Unit works closely with Community Groups, Event Organizers and other divisions of the Department of Public Safety, ensuring events within the City of Pittsburgh have adequate safety and security measures in place. It is their goal to help make every event as successful as possible, from sporting events to concerts to neighborhood block parties. It is all about the safety of everyone involved.
River Rescue(show below)
River Rescue is a partnership between Pittsburgh Police and the Emergency Medical Services SCUBA search and rescue team.
River Rescue responsibilities include:
Piloting all River Rescue vessels
Enforcing Commonwealth laws
Patrolling the three rivers and ports
Preventing, Responding to and mitigating waterborne emergencies
SWAT(show below)
The SWAT team fulfils more than 200 missions per year. Missions include:
Barricaded Individuals
Dignitary Protection
High Risk Warrant Service
Hostage Rescue
Surveillance
The SWAT team provides tactical support to local, state and federal agencies, as requested.
Traffic Division(show below)
The Traffic Division is comprised of many parts, all related to the safety of those within the City of Pittsburgh. The division is comprised of several specialized units, each filled with experts in their specific field.
jasujazumdinski
Car Seat Inspection and Education
These officers have received extensive education in the use of safety restraint systems and gladly share the information with anyone who has questions. Their goal is to ensure that our residence have the best information and assistance available to protect their children in a vehicle.
Collision Investigation
The Collision Investigation Unit investigates all crashes that involve critical injuries and fatalities. The Unit is composed of officers with extensive training in crash reconstruction. Other responsibilities include:
Investigating all emergency vehicle crashes
Assist outside agencies
Promote highway safety through education
Commercial Vehicle Enforcement (CVE)
The mission of the CVE is to ensure that all drivers of commercial vehicles and their vehicles operating on the road comply with federal, state and local laws. Their responsibilities include:
Roving Patrols
Stationary Checkpoints
Assisting local, state and federal agencies, as requested
Impaired Driving Unit
Their mission is to stop impaired drivers before they injure themselves or others. These officers have extensive training in the detection, evaluation and testing of impaired drivers. There are several Drug Recognition Experts (DRE) that can test for those under the influence of drugs, also causing impairment. Their mission is accomplished by several means:
Roving Patrols
Checkpoints
Assisting PBP officers who have detained someone suspected of driving while impaired
jasujazumdinski
Motorcycle Unit
The Motorcycle Unit has officers assigned to it every day of the year, regardless of weather conditions. Motorcycle officers receive extensive training in the safe operation of motorcycles. Motorcycle Unit responsibilities include:
Traffic Safety Enforcement & Education
Vehicle Escorts
Traffic Control
Special Events & Community Activities
Tow Pound
Tow Pound personnel are tasked with maintaining the records for the more than 1000 vehicles towed each year. The vehicles are towed for differing reasons, such as parking violations, moving violation, abandonment and collisions.
last updated: 04/22/2025
Back to top
Ready
jasujazumdinski