Skip to main content
opens in new tab or window
In This Section

Police
Fire  - Fire Station Location Map
About Bureau of Fire
Firefighter Recruitment
Girls Firefighter Camp
Fire Safety Programs    - Fire Safe Building Ordinance
Fire Permit Information
Annual Reports
Bureau of Fire Contacts
Animal Care &amp; Control
Emergency Medical Services
Office of Community Health and Safety
Alerts
Public Safety

Fire Safe Building Ordinance
In 2016, City Council passed the Fire Safe Buildings Ordinance, requiring periodic testing and inspections of fire safety systems for some building owners.
The Ordinance requires that all tests and inspections of fire and smoke dampers are completed by individuals "who are certified to inspect and test fire and Smoke Dampers and hold certification from the International Certification Board as a HVAC Fire Life Safety Technician through a program accredited by ANSI under the ISO/IEC 17024 standard."
The Ordinance also requires that all tests and inspections of Smoke Control Systems are completed by individuals who "have obtained air balancer certifications from the International Certification Board as a HVAC Fire Life Safety Technician through a program accredited by ANSI under the ISO/IEC 17024 standard."
You can read the Ordinance.
Below, please find information about contractors certified to complete the inspections in accordance with this ordinance.

jasujazumdinski
Disclaimer
You are required to ensure that all inspections and testing of fire and smoke dampers are performed in accordance with Chapter 802 of the Pittsburgh City Code. The City of Pittsburgh is providing links to a list of ANSI certified inspectors provided by the International Certification Board and the Testing, Adjusting, and Balancing Bureau current as of September 2018. This information is created and maintained by International Certification Board. The City of Pittsburgh is providing these links and information solely for the public's convenience.

The City of Pittsburgh does not control or guarantee the accuracy, relevance, timeliness, or completeness of information contained on a linked web site or the list of ANSI certified inspectors and is not assuming responsibility for damages or other liabilities due to the accuracy, availability, use or misuse of the information provided.
The City of Pittsburgh does not endorse the organizations sponsoring linked web sites and does not endorse the views they express or the products/services they offer.
The City of Pittsburgh does not endorse or recommend any of the entities included as certified providers of services.
The City of Pittsburgh is not responsible for transmissions users receive from linked web sites.
The City of Pittsburgh does not guarantee that outside web sites comply with Section 508 (Accessibility Requirements) of the Rehabilitation Act.
When users select a link to an outside web site, they are leaving the City of Pittsburgh's web site and are subject to the privacy and security policies of the owners/sponsors of the outside site.

I have read the disclaimer
last updated: 04/22/2025
Back to top
Ready
jasujazumdinski