opens in new tab or window
In This Section
City Planning
Mobility and Infrastructure
Permits, Licenses, and Inspections  - Applications & Forms
OneStopPGH
Permits    - About PLI
Residential Permits
Commercial Permits
Permit Process
Work Not Requiring a Permit
Licenses
Bulletins
Community Resources
Code Enforcement
Condemned Buildings
PLI Fees
Building Codes
Appeals
PLI Contacts
Announcements
Registrations
Digital Equity In Pittsburgh
Small Business Resources
Public Works
Zoning
Geographic Information Systems, Mapping & Open Data
Procurement
PGH Lab
Sustainability
Land Operations Permit
A commercial land operations permit is required for the following work:
Site grading that:
Exceeds 50 cubic yards.
Is performed on a slope exceeding 25% with a depth of 5 feet or more.
Is performed for an easement for a public sewer, water main, storm drain or power line.
Is performed for an encroachment on or alteration of an existing drainage channel or watercourse systems.
Placing impermeable / semipermeable surfacing for an area exceeding 10,000 square feet.
Removal of Vegetation, Trees and/or Ground Cover that:
Exceeds 10,000 square feet.
Is performed on any slope exceeding 25%.
Surface mining exceeding 50 cubic yards.
Remediation of a landslide
Please see Permit Home for the definition of commercial structures and work types. Please see Work Not Requiring A Permit for work that can be performed without a PLI permit. Please visit our Contacts page for the Construction Inspector's contact information.
jasujazumdinski
Work Scopes
Site Work (Grading): excavation and/or fill.
Impermeable / Semipermeable Surfacing: installing impermeable or semipermeable surfacing.
Removal of Vegetation, Trees, and/or Ground Cover: removal of vegetation, trees, and/or ground cover.
Surface Mining: surface mining.
Construction of Private Roadway: construction of a roadway on private property and not regulated by DOMI.
Permit Process
See these web pages for additional information regarding the permitting process:
Permit Process
Application Submission
All Work Types require submission of drawings to OneStopPGH.
Application Review
Permit Issuance
Permit Inspections
Special Inspections are required for all work performed under a land operations permit.
Permit Completion
Please see Other Agency Coordination for processes related to other agencies that may relate to your permit scope. For commercial land operations permits:
Zoning Development Review application submission is required for all land operations permits.
Department of Mobility and Infrastructure (DOMI)
Required to review transportation of materials over city streets. A route map shall be provided to DOMI.
Pittsburgh Water and Sewer Authority (PWSA)
Required to confirm the land operations work does not impact PSWA infrastructure.
last updated: 04/23/2025
Back to top
Ready
jasujazumdinski