Skip to main content
opens in new tab or window
Three Bills to Protect Reproductive Freedom in the City of Pittsburgh
Published on June 24, 2022

Pittsburgh, PA (June 28, 2022) — Pittsburgh City Councilman Bobby Wilson (District 1) introduced three bills at today’s Regular Meeting of Pittsburgh City Council to protect reproductive freedom in the City of Pittsburgh. Councilperson Erika Strassburger (District 8) and Councilman Corey O’Connor (District 5) joined him as co-sponsors on these bills.
The introduction of these bills comes in response to the decision by the Supreme Court of the United States in Dobbs v. Jackson Women’s Health Organization (2022) to overturn Roe v. Wade (1973), Planned Parenthood v. Casey (1992), and its progeny, thereby ending Americans’ constitutional right to abortion.
If the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania bans abortion, the first bill will instruct the City of Pittsburgh’s Bureau of Police and other law enforcement agencies to de-prioritize enforcement of any abortion-related crime.
The second bill seeks to regulate deceptive advertising by crisis pregnancy centers in the City of Pittsburgh.
The third bill aims to shield abortion providers in the City of Pittsburgh from out-of-state investigation or prosecution for providing abortion care that is legal in the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.
“I believe that everyone has a constitutional right to reproductive freedom in this country. Exercising this right entails the right to choose what happens to your body. In Dobbs, the Supreme Court of the United States took away the constitutional right of every American, every Pennsylvanian, every Pittsburgher to choose what happens to their body. I cannot accept that – that is why I introduced these three bills. Now, let’s stand up, unite, and fight to get back our right to choose,” said Councilman Wilson.
For press inquiries, please contact Councilman Wilson’s Legislative Aide, Mohammed Burny, at (412) 215-0528 or mohammed.burny@pittsburghpa.gov.
Tagged as:

City Council

Back to top
Ready
jasujazumdinski