Skip to main content
opens in new tab or window
In This Section

Mayor
City Controller
City Council
Boards, Authorities, Commissions  - Member Rosters
Agendas &amp; Minutes
List of Boards, Authorities, Commissions    - Allegheny County Sanitary Authority (ALCOSAN)
Allegheny Regional Asset District (ARAD)
Board of Appeals
Bridge Asset Management Program
City-County Task Force on Disabilities
Civil Service Commission
Clean Pittsburgh Commission
Commission on Human Relations
Comprehensive Municipal Pension Trust Fund
Ethics Hearing Board
Equipment Leasing Authority
Equal Opportunity Review Commission (EORC)
Gender Equity Commission
HIV Commission
Housing Authority, City of Pittsburgh
Independent Citizen Police Review Board
Infrastructure Asset Reporting and Investment
LGBTQIA+ Commission
Municipal Pension Fund
Other Post Employment Benefits (OPEB) Trust Fund
Pittsburgh Land Bank
Records Management Advisory Commission
Shade Tree Commission
Southwestern Pennsylvania Commission
Sports and Exhibition Authority
Stadium Authority
Urban Redevelopment Authority

Legal Services
Jobs
Finance &amp; Budget
Contacts &amp; Information

About CMPTF
The Comprehensive Municipal Pension Trust Fund (CMPTF) is comprised of the Municipal Pension Fund, the Firemen’s Relief and Pension Fund, and the Policemen’s Relief and Pension Fund; the City’s three pension funds are invested together per the CMPTF. The CMPTF was created in 1984 as a result of the Pennsylvania Legislature passing Act 205, The Municipal Pension Plan Funding Standard and Recovery Act. The purpose of this Act was to stop the increase in unfunded liabilities of municipal pension plans and to establish a program to make these plans solvent. The Comprehensive Board was forced to pool the assets of municipal, fire, and police plans in order to achieve administrative savings and greater investment earnings. The CMPTF Board consists of seven representatives.
jasujazumdinski
Board Members

Mr. Ralph Sicuro, CMPTF Chairperson and Trustee Fireman's Relief and Pension Fund Representative
Mr. Patrick Cornell , CMPTF Vice Chairperson and Trustee, Municipal Pension Fund Representative
Ms. Felicity Williams, CMPTF Secretary and Trustee, Director of Human Resources Civil Service
Mr. Richard Ruffolo, CMPTF Treasurer and Trustee, Policeman's Relief and Pension Fund Representative
The Honorable Ed Gainey, CMPTF Trustee, Mayor
The Honorable Rachael Heisler, CMPTF Trustee, City Controller
The Honorable Daniel Lavelle, CMPTF Trustee, Council President
Executive Director: Jennifer Gula, Director/Treasurer of Finance, City of Pittsburgh
Solicitor – Frederick N. Frank, Frank, Gale, Bails &amp; Pocrass P. C.
Financial Analyst – Robin Thompson

Contact Us
Robin Thompson
Financial Adviser
412-255-8956
robin.thompson@pittsburghpa.gov
last updated: 04/22/2025
Back to top
Ready
jasujazumdinski