opens in new tab or window
In This Section
City Planning  - About City Planning
City Planning Meeting Calendar
City Planning Public Notices
Commissions and Boards
Historic Preservation Program
Public Art Program
Neighborhood Planning
Master & Neighborhood Plans
City Planning Projects
City Planning Programs    - Adopt-A-Lot
Greenways
Registered Community Organizations
Development Review Process Guides
Mobility and Infrastructure
Permits, Licenses, and Inspections
Digital Equity In Pittsburgh
Small Business Resources
Public Works
Zoning
Geographic Information Systems, Mapping & Open Data
Procurement
PGH Lab
Sustainability
Development Activities Meeting
Development Activities Meeting Guidelines(PDF, 114KB)
Purpose of the Meeting
To provide residents, property owners, business owners, and stakeholders an opportunity to learn about the proposals that affect them and resolve concerns at an early stage of the application process.
Applicability
All applicants shall hold a Development Activities Meeting at least 30 days prior to the first public hearing. Development Activities Meetings shall be required for the following projects that require a Public Hearing at Public Art & Civic Design Commission, Historic Review Commission, Planning Commission or the Zoning Board of Adjustment, and meet one of the following project thresholds:
2,400 square feet of new or expanded structure
4 or more new residential units
New or enlarged parking area with 10 over more stalls
Use Variances before the Zoning Board of Adjustment (ZBA)
Zoning Map Amendments
Project Development Plans (PDP)
Preliminary Land Development Plans (PLDP)
Final Land Development Plans (FLDP)
Master Development Plans (MDP)
Institutional Master Plans (IMP)
An application to Historic Review Commission (HRC)
An application to Public Art & Civic Design Commission (PACD)
jasujazumdinski
How to Schedule a Development Activities Meeting
After filing a Zoning & Development Review Application and a completed initial review by Zoning staff, applicants must coordinate with the applicable RCO and Neighborhood Planner to schedule a time and date for the public meeting to discuss the applicant’s proposal. Please contact the Neighborhood Planner to initiate scheduling.
Notice of Meeting
To submit an application, the applicant shall provide the date, time and location of the neighborhood meeting. The applicable RCO(s), using methods from their communication strategy, will notify the residents, property owners, business owners, and other stakeholders of the time, date and location of the Development Activities Meeting at least 10 days prior to the Development Activities Meeting. This notice should include:
The substance and location of the proposal.
The meeting date and time.
Where the Zoom link will be posted (the City Planning DAM website under Upcoming Development Activities Meetings) and that the link will be posted one day prior to the meeting.
Notice Resource for RCOs
Downloadable template images(PNG, 778KB) are available to facilitate RCOs in advertising the DAM via social media and email. Suggested text to also include would be:
[NAME OF RCO] is hosting a Development Activities Meeting on [DATE] at [TIME]. This meeting will be hosted on Zoom. The link for the meeting will be posted at https://pittsburghpa.gov/dcp/dev-activities-meeting one day prior to the meeting. Projects discussed at this meeting will be: [LIST ALL PROJECTS ON THE AGENDA].
[NAME OF RCO] is hosting a Development Activities Meeting on [DATE] at [TIME]. This meeting will be hosted in person at [LOCATION]. Projects discussed at this meeting will be: [LIST ALL PROJECTS ON THE AGENDA].
Attach provided graphic or graphic of your own if desired.
jasujazumdinski
Development Activity Meetings Staff Reports
Starting January 1, 2025, all DAM Reports can be accessed under the individual DAM events on the City Planning Calendar page.
Previous column Next column