Skip to main content
opens in new tab or window
In This Section

City Planning
Mobility and Infrastructure
Permits, Licenses, and Inspections  - Applications &amp; Forms
OneStopPGH
Permits    - About PLI
Residential Permits
Commercial Permits
Permit Process
Work Not Requiring a Permit

Licenses
Bulletins
Community Resources
Code Enforcement
Condemned Buildings
PLI Fees
Building Codes
Appeals
PLI Contacts
Announcements
Registrations
Digital Equity In Pittsburgh
Small Business Resources
Public Works
Zoning
Geographic Information Systems, Mapping &amp; Open Data
Procurement
PGH Lab
Sustainability

Special Inspections
General Requirements/Responsibilities

Please note the required Special Inspections supplement but do not replace PLI inspections.
The design professional (architect or engineer) is responsible to provide a Statement of Special Inspections to identify all required Special Inspections associated with the proposed construction.
The owner is responsible to engage a qualified Special Inspector(s) for all required Special Inspections identified on the permit or by the Inspector.
The permit holder is responsible to:
Notify the Special Inspector when work is ready for inspection.
Keep work exposed until authorized to conceal by the PLI Inspector and the Special Inspector.

In addition to the Special Inspections identified by the current International Building Code, the following types may apply:

Performance Scoring Verification: required if the Performance Scoring Method is selected as the compliance path. The Special Inspector is responsible for verifying that existing conditions and construction are in accordance with PLI-approved scoring.
Landscaping: Required as identified by the DCP under Zoning Development Review (ZDR) application and identified on the Permit. The Special Inspector is responsible to confirm that landscaping has been installed in accordance with DCP approval.

jasujazumdinski
Special Inspector's Responsibilities
Special Inspector's responsibilities include, but are not limited to:

Be objective and independent from the permit holder responsible for the work subject to Special Inspections.
Notify Building Code Official and Design Professional in Responsible Charge of any possible conflicts of interest.
Perform Special Inspections per approved construction documents and applicable code requirements.
Notify permit holder immediately of discrepancies.
Notify design professional and PLI if a discrepancy is not addressed in a timely fashion.
Notify PLI immediately of building code violations.
Maintain a list of discrepancies and resolution and/or corrective action taken.
Provide interim logs/reports and the final inspection report.

Special Inspector Qualifications/Certifications

Steel: ICC Structural Steel and Bolting SI and ICC Structural Welding SI certification or American Welding Society (AWS) Certified welding inspector (CWI).
Concrete: ICC Reinforced Concrete SI certification or ACI Concrete Construction SI certification, and ICC Prestressed SI certification (as applicable).
Structural Masonry: ICC Structural Masonry SI certification.
Wood construction, Fabricated Items, Wind Resistance, Seismic Resistance: PA licensed structural engineer.
Soils: ICC Soils SI certifications or National Institute for Certification in Engineering Technologies (NICET) III Soils certification.
Driven deep foundations &amp; Helical pile foundations: PA licensed geotechnical and structural engineer.
Cast-in-place deep foundations: ICC Reinforced Concrete SI certification or ACI Concrete Construction SI certification, ICC Prestressed SI certification (as applicable), and Geotechnical and structural engineer.
Spray-applied Fireproofing &amp; Mastic and intumescent fire-resistant coatings: ICC Spray-applied Fireproofing SI certification.
Exterior insulation and finish systems (EIFS): Association of the Wall and Ceiling Industry AWCI EIFS Inspector certification or architect.
Fire-resistant penetrations and joints: ICC Fire Inspector I certification and Factory Mutual Global (FM) firestop examination or International Firestop Council certification.
Smoke Control Systems: PA licensed engineer(s) with fire protection and mechanical engineering experience and certification as an air balancer (Associated Air Balance Council (AABC) technician certification). Alternately, Licensed engineer(s) with fire protection and mechanical engineering experience based on balance reports provided by certified air balancer.

Land Operations Permits: as applicable

Grading: ICC Soils SI certifications or National Institute for Certification in Engineering Technologies (NICET) III Soils certification.

Steep slopes, landslide-prone, or undermined sites and vegetation/ground cover removal: PA licensed geotechnical engineer.
Concrete work: ICC Reinforced Concrete SI certification or ACI Concrete Construction SI certification, and ICC Prestressed SI certification (as applicable)
Masonry work: ICC Structural Masonry SI certification.
Other: Pa licensed engineer.
Performance Scoring Verification: PA licensed architect or engineer with experience with this compliance path.
Landscaping: PA licensed landscape architect or architect with qualified experience.

Other qualifications and/or certifications shall be considered on a case-by-case basis.
last updated: 04/23/2025
Back to top
Ready
jasujazumdinski