Skip to main content
opens in new tab or window
In This Section

City Planning
Mobility and Infrastructure
Permits, Licenses, and Inspections  - Applications &amp; Forms
OneStopPGH
Permits
Licenses
Bulletins
Community Resources
Code Enforcement    - Clean and Lien
Top 10 Code Violations
Facade Inspections
Fire Prevention

Condemned Buildings
PLI Fees
Building Codes
Appeals
PLI Contacts
Announcements
Registrations
Digital Equity In Pittsburgh
Small Business Resources
Public Works
Zoning
Geographic Information Systems, Mapping &amp; Open Data
Procurement
PGH Lab
Sustainability

Code Enforcement
Watch our Community Forum about Code Enforcement
PLI Citation Process(show below)

For contact information for the inspector assigned to your ward or case please refer to the PLI Contacts page.
One purpose of the Department of Permits, Licenses, and Inspections Code Enforcement is to protect the health, safety, and welfare in existing buildings and structures. PLI enforces the International Property Maintenance Code ("IPMC") as adopted by the City of Pittsburgh Code of Ordinances Title 10 Chapter 1004. PLI also enforces the Zoning Code – Title Nine.
Understanding Requests for Compliance
Most inspections start with requests that are called, texted, tweeted or electronically submitted to the 311 Response Center. The requests are anonymous, and each request prompts an inspection.
Once an inspector gets a request, the inspector follows a standardized process that was created to make sure that property owners get a legal Request for Compliance and a reasonable amount of time to fix the issue.
If you get a Request for Compliance and want to talk to the inspector, please call their direct number, which is on the request. Here is an example of a Request for Compliance:

If you must leave a voicemail, the inspector will make every effort to call you back as quickly as possible. Please give them a day to respond. When you talk to the inspector, you can talk about the request, try to work out the issue, and/or schedule an appointment or follow-up inspection.
If you do not respond to the Request for Compliance and do not fix the violation, the inspector will do a second inspection and send a second request. Again, you can still call the inspector, try to work things out, and fix the violation.
If the issue is not fixed by the deadline in the second request, the inspector does a third and final inspection. If the inspector finds the same violation, you will receive a third notice, and a criminal court complaint will be filed with the local magisterial district judge. Once the judge receives the complaint, the judge will schedule a hearing and serve the hearing documents on the property owner of record. If you are found guilty at the hearing, the judge can impose a fine. If you do not pay the fine, the judge can find you in contempt and send you to jail. To hopefully avoid all of those things, even though it is ultimately up to the judge to decide what to do once a complaint has been filed, PLI encourages you to work with your inspector and fix the violations.
Click on this workflow chart(PDF, 37KB) to see the process illustrated.
jasujazumdinski
Violations
Types of Violations PLI Enforces

Weeds and/or debris on a property
Abandoned vehicles on private property only
Sidewalks that are a tripping hazard
Electrical Violations
Building Violations
Zoning Violations

Violations Enforced by Other City Departments
Police Bureau - 412-323-7800

Abandoned vehicles in the Public Right of Way

Animal Control - 412-255-2036

Any issues involving animals

Pittsburgh Water and Sewer Authority (PWSA) - 412-255-2423

Sewer or catch basins

City Planning - 412-255-2200

Residential parking issues

Public Works - 412-255-2726

Snow and ice removal
Potholes

Frequently Asked Questions
How do I file a complaint?(show below)
Call the 311 Response Center at 311 or, if you are outside the City, at 412-255-2621, or file an electronic complaint form. After a complaint is filed with 311, it is forwarded to the PLI Code Enforcement Inspectors or the responsible department.
How can I determine who owns the property?(show below)
You can use the Allegheny County Real Estate Website to find the owner of record for a property. Please note that PLI is not responsible for the accuracy of content on websites external to the City of Pittsburgh site or on web pages external to PLI web pages.
What can PLI do about vacant properties owned by the URA or the City?(show below)
If there is a violation of City Ordinances, the City or the URA will be sent a notice of violation. Steps will be taken to raze or clean and secure the building, whichever is applicable.
How can I appeal an initial (first) notice of violation?(show below)
If the notice is for violation(s) of the City's Licensing Code (which is under Title 7 of the City Code) and/or International Property Maintenance Code ("IPMC") (which is adopted under Chapter 1004 of the City Code), then you would file the appeal with the Board of License and Inspection Review ("LIR Board"). For information on how to file an appeal with the LIR Board, please visit the LIR Board's web page.
If the notice is for violation(s) of the Uniform Construction Code ("UCC") (which is adopter under Chapter 1002 of the City Code), then you would file the appeal with the Board of Appeals ("BOA"). For information on how to file an appeal with the BOA, please visit the BOA's web page.
I received a notice of violation for my sidewalk but it is uplifted by a City tree, what do I do?(show below)
If a City tree is uplifting the sidewalk in front of your property, the property owner is responsible to fix the sidewalk. Hoever, before doing any work, you must contact the Department of Public Works' Forestry Division for root pruning at 412-665-3625 and the Department of Mobility and Infrastructure ("DOMI") for a sidewalk repair permit at 412-255-8850. The Forestry Division will prune the City tree at the proper time of year prior to the installation of the new sidewalk. Also, please note that you cannot plant, remove, or trim a City tree without a permit from Forestry. Please review the proper procedure for root pruning and sidewalk repair(PDF, 31KB).
last updated: 07/30/2025
Back to top
Ready
jasujazumdinski