opens in new tab or window
In This Section
City Planning  - About City Planning
City Planning Meeting Calendar
City Planning Public Notices
Commissions and Boards
Historic Preservation Program
Public Art Program
Neighborhood Planning
Master & Neighborhood Plans
City Planning Projects
City Planning Programs    - Adopt-A-Lot
Greenways
Registered Community Organizations
Development Review Process Guides
Mobility and Infrastructure
Permits, Licenses, and Inspections
Digital Equity In Pittsburgh
Small Business Resources
Public Works
Zoning
Geographic Information Systems, Mapping & Open Data
Procurement
PGH Lab
Sustainability
Become an RCO
What is a Registered Community Organization (RCO)?
RCOs must meet a set of eligibility requirements laid out in the Administrative Code. RCOs will receive notification of proposed zoning amendments, landmark designation applications, planning board and zoning board of adjustment hearings and other activities occurring within the RCO’s geographic footprint, as stipulated in the ordinance.
RCO Responsibilities
Coordinating with applicants and their DCP neighborhood planner in scheduling the time, date, and location for Development Activities Meetings (D.A.M.s).
Notifying residents, property owners, business owners, and other stakeholders of the time, date, and location of D.A.M.s. This notice shall include the project location and purpose of the proposal.
Posting meeting agendas, decisions, and minutes, from Board and/or public meetings, especially those related to D.A.M.s, on the organization’s website.
Fostering and hosting open and respectful communication with all people.
Renewing registration with the Department of City Planning on a biennial basis.
jasujazumdinski
RCO Policies
Agendas, Decisions, and Minutes of Executive Sessions and personnel matters are exempt from the posting requirement.
Decisions and Minutes shall be posted on the organization’s website within 90 days of the meeting/decision.
The applicable RCO(s), using methods from their communication strategy, shall notify the residents, property owners, business owners, and other stakeholders of the time, date, and location of the Development Activities Meeting at least 10 days prior to the Development Activities Meeting.
Development Activities Meeting shall not be scheduled on a holiday, a holiday weekend, or the day before a holiday or holiday weekend. A holiday is defined as a holiday recognized by the City of Pittsburgh.
A RCO shall be provided with two 30-day notices of violations before they are delisted.
The applicable RCO shall schedule the Development Activities Meeting within 45 days of a request by an applicant.
The time between a Development Activities Meeting and the first public hearing can be no longer than one year.
For any questions regarding these policies, please contact the RCO Program Administration team at RCOprogram@pittsburghpa.gov.
RCO Eligibility Criteria
The requirements to become an RCO include:
501(c)3 nonprofit organization in good standing with the state of Pennsylvania, or affiliation with a 501(c)3 nonprofit corporation in good standing with the state of Pennsylvania via a Memorandum of Understanding
Adopted bylaws
Adopted Conflict of Interest Policy
Adopted statement of purpose or mission
An identified geographic boundary, identified either by approved bylaws or passed by another action of the organization
Transparent Board selection process and defined terms
A written communication strategy which includes the following provisions:
The methods the community organizations use to reach out to the community
The reasons they use those methods, including data to support these reasons
Strategy to inform residents and businesses about the community organization's communication strategy and where the community can access this information
Strategy to provide outreach to the community of upcoming meetings
Regular meetings, not less than twice per calendar year, which are open to all members of the public in an ADA-accessible space
Adopted Policy Against Discrimination
A website which provides the following information:
Advance notification of meetings
Meeting agendas, decisions and minutes
A signed letter from the Member(s) of Council whose Council District(s) contain the designated geographical area(s)
Each RCO must renew their registration with the Department of City Planning every two (2) years during the month of December by providing updated documents if the information has changed.
jasujazumdinski
RCO Registration
RCO registration is free and applications will be accepted throughout the year. Please download an application HERE(PDF, 267KB). The application and documentation can be submitted in two ways:
Via email to the RCO Program Administration team at RCOprogram@pittsburghpa.gov.
Via mail to the RCO Program Administration, Department of City Planning, 100 Ross Street, Suite 202, Pittsburgh, PA 15219.
RCO Resources
501(c)3 Status example(PDF, 112KB)
Boards
Board Rotation example(PDF, 124KB)
Board Succession Planning(PDF, 103KB)
Bylaws
Bylaws example(PDF, 237KB)
Outline to create bylaws(PDF, 27KB)
Meeting bylaws example(PDF, 6KB)
Communication Strategy
Example of communication strategy(PDF, 300KB)
Communication planning questions(PDF, 220KB)
Conflict of Interest
What qualifies as a conflict of interest?
Conflict of Interest Statement example(PDF, 112KB)
Fiscal Sponsorship Agreement example(PDF, 271KB)
Mission Statement development process(PDF, 114KB)
Nondiscrimination
Guidestar Nondiscrimination policy
Nondiscrimination Statement example(PDF, 173KB)
Website Planning
Example RCO website
Website planning resources(PDF, 129KB)
General Information
If you have any questions, please contact the RCO Program Administration team at RCOprogram@pittsburghpa.gov.
Related Information
Registered Community Organizations
Become an RCO
Who’s My RCO
RCO FAQs
Development Activities Meeting
List of RCOs
last updated: 04/23/2025
Back to top
Ready
jasujazumdinski