Skip to main content
opens in new tab or window
In This Section

City Planning
Mobility and Infrastructure
Permits, Licenses, and Inspections  - Applications &amp; Forms
OneStopPGH
Permits    - About PLI
Residential Permits
Commercial Permits
Permit Process
Work Not Requiring a Permit

Licenses
Bulletins
Community Resources
Code Enforcement
Condemned Buildings
PLI Fees
Building Codes
Appeals
PLI Contacts
Announcements
Registrations
Digital Equity In Pittsburgh
Small Business Resources
Public Works
Zoning
Geographic Information Systems, Mapping &amp; Open Data
Procurement
PGH Lab
Sustainability

Permit Completion / Passed Final Inspections
In order for a permit to be completed the following are required:

All required inspections, including the final, have been granted passed inspections.
All work covered by that permit is complete and has been granted passed inspections.
All required sub-permits, as identified on the Permit or by the Inspector, are complete with recorded passed final inspections.
All additional inspections, as identified on the Permit or by the Inspector, such as accessibility and energy inspections have been granted passed inspections.
All required Special Inspections have been performed and the Final Special Inspection Report has been issued.
All required close-out documents have been submitted by uploading as close-out documents via the OneStopPGH portal.
All work associated with other City departments and/or agencies required as a condition of permit approval – this includes but is not limited to the following:
Approved landscaping as identified by the Zoning Department.
Public right of way infrastructure such as roads, curb cuts, sidewalks, etc.

jasujazumdinski
Permit Close-out Documents
Failure to provide required close-out documents associated with a permit will result in a failed inspection and may result in the scheduled inspection being canceled.

Testing reports, including mechanical system balance
Statement of Compliance for Suppression System permits
Record of Completion for Fire Alarm permits
Energy testing and/or commissioning reports
Special Inspection Final Inspection Report

Administrative Audit

PLI performs administrative audits of completed permits to confirm all required inspections have been required, all close-out documents are complete and have been uploaded to the OneStopPGH portal, and all permit conditions have been met.
If any of the above items are deficient, the permit is returned to the inspection process, the final inspection is failed, and the permit holder is notified.
The permit holder is responsible to address deficiencies and request a new final inspection for the permit to be completed.

Documentation of Completion

For building permits that include a Certificate of Occupancy, after permit completion and administrative audit, the Certificate is issued by the Building Code Official, a copy is emailed to the permit holder, and a copy is added to PLI's Certificate of Occupancy database.  The Certificate is generally issued within 5-business days but may occasionally take longer.
Not all building permits include a Certificate of Occupancy.  For these and other permits, the final inspection summary report documents that a passed final inspection was granted and the permit is complete.

NOTE the failure to request a final inspection is a violation of the Pennsylvania Uniform Construction Code and shall result in PLI issuance of a request for compliance.
last updated: 04/23/2025
Back to top
Ready
jasujazumdinski