Skip to main content
opens in new tab or window
In This Section

Police
Fire
Animal Care &amp; Control
Emergency Medical Services
Office of Community Health and Safety
Alerts
Public Safety  - Animal Care &amp; Control
Disruptive Properties
Emergency Management and Homeland Security    - Report Suspicious Activity
OEMHS Internships
Ready City
Safety Resources
Community Emergency Response Teams (CERT)
Active Shooter/Active Threat

National Night Out
Nighttime Economy
Office of Film &amp; Event Management
Park Rangers
Violence Prevention
Public Safety Contacts

Active Shooter/Active Threat
Citizens Public Safety Preparedness &amp; Risk Reduction Training
How to Respond when an Active Shooter/Active Threat Is in Your Vicinity
If You Run
If there is an accessible escape path, attempt to evacuate the premises. Be sure to:

Have an escape route and plan in mind.
Evacuate regardless of whether others agree to follow.
Leave your belongings behind.
Help others escape, if possible.
Prevent others from entering the area.
Follow the instructions of any police officers.
Do not attempt to move wounded people.
Call 911 when you are safe.

If You Hide
If evacuation is not possible, find a place to hide where the active shooter/active threat is less likely to find you. Your hiding place should:

Be out of the active shooter’s view.
Provide protection if shots are fired in your direction (i.e., an office with a closed and locked door).
Not trap you or restrict your options for movement (if possible).

To prevent an active shooter/active threat from entering your hiding place:

Lock the door.
Blockade the door with heavy furniture.

jasujazumdinski
If You Fight
As a last resort, and only when your life is in imminent danger, attempt to disrupt and/or incapacitate the active shooter/active threat by:

Acting as aggressively as possible against the attacker.
Throwing items and improvising weapons such as chairs, books, paperweights, fire extinguishers or other heavy items.
Using numbers to overwhelm the attacker. There is strength in working together.
Yelling to startle the attacker and draw attention to the situation.
Committing to your actions and fighting like your life depends on it.

Additional Information
Active shooter incidents are often unpredictable and evolve quickly. In the midst of the chaos, anyone can play an integral role in mitigating the impacts of an active shooter incident. The links below will provide you with information regarding active shooter preparedness and planning.
For those assembling an active shooter plan for your organization, access our Active Shooter Plan template(DOCX, 58KB).

Options for Consideration Active Shooter Preparedness Video
Active Shooter Preparedness Program

Active Shooter Printable Resources

Active Shooter Pocket Card(PDF, 210KB)

Active Shooter Online Courses
FEMA's Active Shooter, What to Do Course

Describes the actions to take when confronted with an active shooter and to assist responding law enforcement officials.
Recognizes potential workplace violence indicators.
Describes actions to take to prevent and prepare for potential active shooter incidents.
Describes how to manage the consequences of an active shooter incident.

DHS’s Active Shooter Awareness 90-Minute Webinar
Helps the private and public sector understand the importance of developing an emergency response plan and the need to train employees on how to respond if confronted with an active shooter. The presentation describes the three types of active shooters--workplace/school, criminal, and ideological--and how their planning cycles and behaviors differ.
last updated: 04/22/2025
Back to top
Ready
jasujazumdinski