opens in new tab or window
In This Section
Mayor
City Controller
City Council
Boards, Authorities, Commissions
Legal Services
Jobs
Finance & Budget  - Campaign Finances
Dog Licenses
Fee Schedule
Management & Budget
New Business Registration
Pilot Home Buying Program
Real Estate    - About Finance
Contact Finance
Debt Obligations
Finance Permits & Licenses
Treasurer Sales
Taxes
Contacts & Information
Real Estate
Prior Year Delinquent Tax bills are in the mail as of August 25, 2025 with a due date of September 30, 2025. You can use this link to pay online, https://magic.collectorsolutions.com/magic-ui/en-US/OneTimePayment/pittsburgh; even before your bill arrives, or you also have the opportunity to scan our QR code to pay online.
To request a payment plan, please fill out and submit the Payment Plan application ( Link to Form(PDF, 161KB)(PDF, 744KB))
During billings, the City of Pittsburgh Real Estate Division may experience high call volumes. Please do not sit on hold but leave a detailed voicemail or contact us via email at RealEstateTaxInfo@pittsburghpa.gov. All operators are working diligently to answer all communications. Please note that a return call from the Real Estate Division may not be identified as such with Caller ID and may say "Bellevue". Thank you for your patience!
Real Estate Online Payment System
Online payment collected by Magic Collection Solutions
Attention: Effective September 2, 2024 all Request to Purchase applications must be submitted through our online portal. Paper applications and applications sent via email will no longer be accepted. A $25 application fee per property will apply.
The Real Estate Division of the Department of Finance accepts questions from the general public for purchase of properties.
The City makes certain that the requested property is not needed for public improvement. The prospective purchaser submits a request to become a qualified buyer.
A qualified buyer is one who:
has paid taxes, water, sewage, etc.
is in compliance with City codes and policies.
The approved prospective purchaser is notified of the price in the response letter to the Request to Purchase form.
jasujazumdinski
Pilot Home Buying Program
This new initiative is designed to remove longstanding legal and procedural barriers that have prevented many residents from acquiring homes directly from the City.
“The goal is to make homeownership more accessible for Pittsburghers and reduce the red tape that’s too often stood in the way,” said Mayor Ed Gainey.
- OPEN HOUSES -
10/18/2025 - From 12pm - 3pm
*Feel free to bring your contractor or inspector with you
Pilot Home Buying Program Instructions(PDF, 57KB)
Please Download the application here: Pilot Program Buyer Application(PDF, 4MB)
3408 Clearfield St Flyer(PDF, 658KB)
454 Norton St Flyer(PDF, 1MB)
195 Steuben St Flyer(PDF, 2MB)
2921 Merwyn Ave Flyer(PDF, 1MB)
1310 Pritchard St Flyer(PDF, 1MB)
Properties for Sale
Browse Available City Owned Properties
Learn more about our "Court Auction" property process(PDF, 386KB)
Effective 10-31-2024, Legislation 2024-0776, Enactment # 763, the City's Side Yard Sale Program has been suspended indefinitely. Any Side Yard Sales in progress or have an offer letter sent prior to 10-31-2024 will be honored. If you have received a Side Yard Program Offer Letter, you must sign your proposal by 12-06-2024.
For additional information about the vacant lots, call the Real Estate Division at: 412-255-2300
Real Estate Frequently Asked Questions
Do I have to live within the City of Pittsburgh to be eligible to buy property?(show below)
No. You do not have to be a resident of the City of Pittsburg to be eligible to purchase city-owned property.
Do I have to own property within the City of Pittsburgh to be eligible?(show below)
No. It is not a requirement of the Request to Purchase form that you own property in the city or even at all. Renters can purchase property as long as they are approved.
Can I request multiple properties on my Request to Purchase form?(show below)
No. There can only be one piece of property requested per form. If you are requesting multiple properties, each piece will require a new, separate, Request to Purchase form.
Why do the prices online all say “TBD?”(show below)
Pricing of all properties will be done after you are approved as a buyer.
There are properties I see on the Allegheny County Real Estate Portal that are owned by the City of Pittsburgh but are not on the website, why?(show below)
Those properties are owned by the City of Pittsburgh but are currently not available for sale. If that designation changes, the property will be uploaded to the eProperty Plus website and will be shown as available.
What type of correspondence will I get from the City regarding the price and sale?(show below)
You will receive a letter to your given address regarding your approval and the outcome and sale price of the property. That letter will have information and the directions to the next step of the sales process.
How much money will I need to start my sale?(show below)
You will be required to place 10% of the total purchase price or $200 (whichever is greater) down in hand money to officially start your sale with the city.
If my request to purchase gets denied do I have to start the sales process all over again?(show below)
No. You will have the opportunity to fix and resubmit the Request to Purchase form without having to start from the beginning.
Can I view the property/properties that I requested before I am approved?(show below)
No. You will be able to set a date and time to view the property once you have been approved and received a correspondence letter from the City.
Will I get the properties purchased from the City of Pittsburgh with a clear title?(show below)
Yes. The title and property will be free and clear of all back taxes and liens when you close on the property.
What happens if City Council does not approve the sale of the property?(show below)
If City Council does not approve the sale of your property, the 10% (or $200) hand money that you placed to start your sale will be returned to you in full.
last updated: 10/03/2025
Back to top
Ready
jasujazumdinski