Skip to main content
opens in new tab or window
Barb Warwick, District 5
Councilmember

Telephone412-255-8965
Emaildistrict5@pittsburghpa.gov

The District 5 office is open in-person at 414 Grant Street, Monday through Thursday from 9am-5pm. Please call 412-255-8965 or email district5@pittsburghpa.gov to make an appointment to meet with Councilmember Warwick or a staff member.
Councilmember Warwick holds drop-in office hours to meet with constituents:

In Hazelwood, every Friday from 11am-1pm at the Carnegie Library of Pittsburgh's Hazelwood branch (5006 Second Avenue, Pittsburgh PA, 15207)
In Squirrel Hill, on the last Friday of every month from 2:30pm-4:30pm at CLP's Squirrel Hill branch (5801 Forbes Ave, Pittsburgh, PA 15217 in Meeting Room B)

Introduction
Welcome to the office of Council District 5! Our district includes nine neighborhoods: Glen Hazel, Greenfield, Hays, Hazelwood, Lincoln Place, New Homestead, Regent Square, Squirrel Hill South, and Swisshelm Park.
Features
Councilmember Barb Warwick
Neighborhood Groups
District 5 in the News
District 5 Newsletters
Contacts
Feedback
District 5 Projects
jasujazumdinski
Our Neighborhoods
Glen Hazel(show below)
Glen Hazel is a small family community between Hazelwood and the Homestead Grays bridge. Surrounded by densely wooded areas, various species of wildlife are often seen just a short distance from the neighborhood’s main drag, Johnston Avenue. Notable locations in Glen Hazel include The Glen Hazel Family Community, and the Bernice Washington Crawly High Rise.
Greenfield(show below)
Greenfield is a growing residential community adjacent to Squirrel Hill, Hazelwood, and Schenley Park. Notoriously hilly, the neighborhood is home to a preponderance of City-owned public steps and marvelous views of Pittsburgh’s skyline. A “suburb in the City," Greenfield features a quaint business district, eight houses of worship, and the oldest youth baseball league in Pittsburgh!
Hays(show below)
While there are dozens of homes and families in Hays near Baldwin, Glass Run, and Beck’s Run Roads, the predominant feature of this neighborhood is Hays Woods. This 600+ acre woodland is the largest undeveloped tract of land in Pittsburgh and, as of 2023, the city’s newest park! A de facto nature preserve, restoring and protecting this urban forest is one of the District 5 office’s top priorities. Hays Woods is also home to two of Pittsburgh’s most famous residents: the Hays Bald Eagles.
Hazelwood(show below)
Named for the groves of Hazelnut trees that lined the Monongahela riverfront through the 1700s, Hazelwood has a rich and storied history. Once a steel-manufacturing powerhouse, in recent decades, the neighborhood has evolved into a diverse and affordable family community. With a thriving business district along Second Avenue, Hazelwood is also home to the still-developing “Hazelwood Green.” Already hosting cutting-edge robotics research and the largest sloped solar array in the United States, this LEED certified mixed-use development project is one of the most exciting spaces to watch in all of Pittsburgh.
Lincoln Place(show below)
Lincoln Place is a close-knit residential community, stretching farther South than any other neighborhood in Pittsburgh. A mix of classic homes and new development, the entire 31st Ward strikes a homey balance, maintaining a small-town feel while still having access to big-city amenities. A hidden gem of the city, Lincoln Place is replete with green spaces, youth sports leagues, and community events.
New Homestead(show below)
A predominately residential neighborhood, New Homestead is a tucked away community in the southeast of Pittsburgh. It is home to many single family detached residential developments, as well as some earlier developments from the mid-to-late 20th Century. Neighborhood amenities include access to greenspace, a park, and a ballfield.
Regent Square(show below)
Known for its vibrant business district along South Braddock Avenue, Pittsburgh shares Regent Square with the boroughs of Swissvale, Edgewood, and Wilkinsburg. With no point in the neighborhood more than 2100 feet from Frick Park, the community features a beautiful treescape, and easy access to hiking trails, tennis courts, baseball fields, and more.
Squirrel Hill South(show below)
Situated directly between Frick and Schenley Parks, Squirrel Hill South is home to a diverse mix of homeowners, families, and students enrolled at nearby universities. Murray and Forbes Avenues are also home to one of the most vibrant business districts in all of Pittsburgh, featuring authentic cuisines from around the world, record shops, book stores, and more. Also featuring various houses of worship, community centers, and a branch of the Carnegie Library system, Squirrel Hill is a neighborhood where residents are set up to thrive.
Swisshelm Park(show below)
Named in honor of 19th century radical abolitionist and feminist Jane Swisshelm, Swisshelm Park is a small, family-oriented residential neighborhood surrounded by Frick Park, the Monongahela River, and the Borough of Swissvale. Long adjacent to an industrial slag dump site, Swisshelm Park is now an ecological success story, at the center of efforts to restore the urban stream Nine Mile Run. Within Swisshelm Park’s borders is Duck Hollow, perhaps the most secluded community in all of Pittsburgh. Accessible by just one small bridge, this vestige of a simpler time is an excellent place to spot aquatic birds.

last updated: 26/08/2025
Back to top
Ready
jasujazumdinski