Skip to main content
opens in new tab or window
In This Section

City Planning
Mobility and Infrastructure
Permits, Licenses, and Inspections  - Applications &amp; Forms
OneStopPGH
Permits
Licenses
Bulletins
Community Resources
Code Enforcement    - Clean and Lien
Top 10 Code Violations
Facade Inspections
Fire Prevention

Condemned Buildings
PLI Fees
Building Codes
Appeals
PLI Contacts
Announcements
Registrations
Digital Equity In Pittsburgh
Small Business Resources
Public Works
Zoning
Geographic Information Systems, Mapping &amp; Open Data
Procurement
PGH Lab
Sustainability

Facade Inspections

The International Property Maintenance Code as adopted by the City of Pittsburgh and amended by City Code requires that every building facade be inspected by a licensed engineer or architect on a 5 year interval. Property owners are responsible to contact their own third party licensed professional and keep a report on file for review by a City of Pittsburgh Fire Inspector or Combined Operations Inspector upon request.
Exceptions to this Code are R-3 structures which include single-family residences and daycare or rooming house facilities with 5 or fewer residents.
Section 304.1.1. reads:
304.1.1 Required Inspections: All buildings and structures except Use Group R-3, shall be inspected by a licensed professional engineer or registered architect to determine the structural soundness of items covered in Sections 304.6, 304.8, 304.9, 304.10 and 304.11, and their reports shall bear their signature and seal. All inspections made prior to the adoption of this code shall continue on their previous schedule at five year intervals. All new inspections shall be completed within one year of the adoption of this code and successive inspections shall be made every fifth year after the date of the original inspection.

304.6 Decorative features. Exterior walls shall be free from holes, breaks, and loose or rotting materials; and maintained weatherproof and properly surface coated where required to prevent deterioration.
304.8 Decorative features. All cornices, belt courses, corbels, terra cotta trim, wall facings, and similar decorative features shall be maintained in good repair with proper anchorage and in a safe condition.
304.9 Overhang extensions. All overhang extensions including, but not limited to canopies, marquees, signs, metal awnings, fire escapes, standpipes and exhaust ducts shall be maintained in good repair and be properly anchored so as to be kept in a sound condition. When required, all exposed surfaces of metal or wood shall be protected from the elements and against decay or rust by periodic application of weather-coating materials, such as paint or similar surface treatment.
304.10 Decorative features. Every exterior stairway, deck, porch and balcony, and all appurtenances attached thereto, shall be maintained structurally sound, in good repair, with proper anchorage and capable of supporting the imposed loads.
304.11 Chimneys and towers. All chimneys, cooling towers, smoke stacks, and similar appurtenances shall be maintained structurally safe and sound, and in good repair. All exposed surfaces of metal or wood shall be protected from the elements and against decay or rust by periodic application of weather-coating materials, such as paint or similar surface treatment.

If you have received a notice a violation from PLI regarding facade inspections, contact your inspector and send your current 5-year inspection report. If you do not have a 5-year inspection report, contact a licensed professional immediately. Once the report is complete, contact the inspector and send the report.
last updated: 04/24/2025
Back to top
Ready
jasujazumdinski