Skip to main content
opens in new tab or window
In This Section

City Planning
Mobility and Infrastructure
Permits, Licenses, and Inspections  - Applications &amp; Forms
OneStopPGH
Permits
Licenses    - Business Licenses
Contractor Licenses
Trade Licenses

Bulletins
Community Resources
Code Enforcement
Condemned Buildings
PLI Fees
Building Codes
Appeals
PLI Contacts
Announcements
Registrations
Digital Equity In Pittsburgh
Small Business Resources
Public Works
Zoning
Geographic Information Systems, Mapping &amp; Open Data
Procurement
PGH Lab
Sustainability

Rental Registration
Rental Permit Program
On December 19, 2024, the Department of Permits, Licenses, and Inspections (PLI) launched the Residential Housing Rental Permit Program, also known as a rental registry, an initiative designed to ensure rental properties in Pittsburgh meet basic health and safety standards. Rental unit owners could voluntarily register for this program.
Rental registry compliance remains voluntary until further notice. Per PLI’s rental permit program and business licensing rules and regulations, program fees are nonrefundable except for instances where PLI collected fees in error. Any fees collected during voluntary compliance will be applied towards amounts due once full program enforcement begins.
At least thirty (30) days before PLI starts full program enforcement, PLI will notify the public by publishing revised Rules and Regulations on our webpage and transmitting these to the City Council. Until that point, PLI does not enforce the program or seek penalties for non-compliance.
These Rules and Regulations(PDF, 343KB) document how PLI will administer this program. This inspection checklist(PDF, 244KB) lists the items the PLI inspector will inspect. This document includes hyperlinks to referenced codes and regulations.
Owners or their agents may submit a rental permit registration via the OneStopPGH portal ( https://onestoppgh.pittsburghpa.gov) or at the OneStopPGH counter located on the first floor of 412 Boulevard of the Allies. The 2025 program fees are:

$16.00 flat fee per rental unit for permit registration.
$5.50 flat fee per rental until for permit inspection.
$14.00 fee per dwelling or sleeping unit for permit inspection.

For example, the registration and inspection fees for an apartment building with four (4) units are $77.50. The rental renewal fee for this example, after passing an inspection, is $16.00.
Please email plicodeenforcementsupervisors@pittsburghpa.gov with questions about this program.
last updated: 06/06/2025
Back to top
Ready
jasujazumdinski