Skip to main content
opens in new tab or window
South Shore Riverfront Park

South Shore Riverfront Park, just feet from the South Side Works, showcases the beauty of Pittsburgh's Monongahela River. It contains parts of the Three Rivers Heritage trail, which runs along all three rivers throughout the entirety of Allegheny county, displaying information about historical events and river ecology along the way.
South Side Riverfront Park History(show below)
Formerly a steel mill barge dock, the park was transformed into one of Pittsburgh's most beautiful properties along the Monongahela River. Switchback terraces connect upper and lower plazas to create an exciting outdoor public space for recreation, relaxation and special events.
Management &amp; Operation(show below)
South Side Riverfront Park is owned by the Urban Redevelopment Authority, the City of Pittsburgh's economic development agency. It is managed by the Soffer Organization.
Three Rivers Heritage Trail(show below)
The Three Rivers Heritage Trail is Pittsburg's signature trail system. The 33-mile system is maintained by the Department of Public Works in cooperation with the Friends of the Riverfront.
The trail runs along the banks of our Three Rivers and is a popular walking, biking, running, and tourist destination. Collectively, the trail forms portions of the Great Allegheny Passage, a 150 mile passage that connects Pittsburgh to the nation's Capital - Washington, DC.
Along our riverfront, the Three Rivers Heritage Trail offers connections to many Pittsburgh neighborhoods, attractions, and destinations.
Public Art(show below)
jasujazumdinski
The Workers

First commissioned in 1997, The Workers was the result of a collaboration between twenty-four artists over the course of fourteen years.
Led by IAC co-founder Tim Kaulen, this monument steelworkers of Pittsburgh features relics from the area's industrial heritage: the I-beams used to create the figures once part of the nearby Hot Metal Bridge, and the shields on their arms and legs were remnants from a local boiler house. The ladle between them is action actual piece of equipment once use for pouring hot metal.
Location
South Shore Riverfront Park and Trail, Pittsburgh, PA 15203  View Map
Skip to below map
40.4291538,-79.9648261
South Shore Riverfront Park and Trail ,
Pittsburgh, PA 15203
South Shore Riverfront Park and Trail ,
Pittsburgh, PA 15203
South Shore Riverfront Park
Skip to above map
Tagged as:

Riverfront Parks

Park Details
Amenities

Biking
Commerce
Events
Riverfront Access
Trails
Walking

Back to top
Ready
jasujazumdinski