Skip to main content
opens in new tab or window
Allegheny Landing Park

Nestled between the Roberto Clemente and Andy Warhol Bridges on the North Side, Allegheny Landing Park was Pittsburgh's first modern riverfront park.
Allegheny Landing History(show below)
Allegheny Landing was dedicated in 1984, becoming Pittsburgh's first modern riverfront park. It also pioneered the design concept of riverfront sculpture gardens. Until this point, Pittsburgh's riverfronts were still largely unused. The Landing was the first to push for a connection of unified riverfront parks, paths, and trails on all three rivers.
The park was a key component of Mayor Richard Caliguiri's Renaissance Two. It represented the City's willing investments in public space to better leverage private investments in this landmark redevelopment strategy.
Public Art(show below)
The Builders

Pittsburgh's two Renaissance periods were marked development and growth. The first following World War One and the second in the 1980's Mellon-Stuart Construction Company commissioned this work to pay tribute to these historic times and supplied the artist with photographs of two employees to inspire realistic figures.

Pittsburgh Variations

The four large, vibrant sculptures of this arrangement are typal of the work of George Sugarman. Sugarman pioneered the idea of free standing sculpture displayed without pedestals.

jasujazumdinski
The Forks

Pittsburgh's natural environment and its industrial past are both given tribute in Isaac Witkin's abstract sculpture. The flowing lines reminiscent of the confluence of our three rivers also reference the molten metals poured in the many mills lining these rivers.

Piazza Lavoro &amp; Mythic Source

Commissioned as part of the development of Allegheny Landing as a riverfront sculpture park, Ned Smyth's sculptural installations reference mankind's origins, the role of labor and human culture, and the balance between civilization in nature.
The ground mosaic Mythic Source with its prehistoric aquatic life was originally installed at the nearby Riverfront Plaza. It was removed conservation efforts in 2016, it was then reinstalled within the architectural facades of Piazza Lavaro combining the two works into one sculptural environment.
Mayor Thomas Murphy North Shore Trail - Three Rivers Heritage Trail(show below)
The Three Rivers Heritage Trail is Pittsburg's signature trail system. The 33-mile system is maintained by the Department of Public Works in cooperation with the Friends of the Riverfront.
The trail runs along the banks of our Three Rivers and is a popular walking, biking, running, and tourist destination. Collectively, the trail forms portions of the Great Allegheny Passage - a 150-mile passage that connects Pittsburgh to the nation's Capital - Washington, DC.
The North Side portion of the trail was renamed after former Mayor Thomas J. Murphy Jr. in 2019. Mayor Murphy was integral in leading the redevelopment of the North Shore and the creation of our riverfront trails.
jasujazumdinski
Location
Allegheny Landing, Pittsburgh, PA 15212  View Map
Skip to below map
40.4469743,-80.00335799999999
Allegheny Landing ,
Pittsburgh, PA 15212
Allegheny Landing ,
Pittsburgh, PA 15212
Allegheny Landing Park
Skip to above map
Tagged as:

Riverfront Parks

Park Details
Amenities

Biking
Public Art
Riverfront Access
Scenic Views
Trails
Walking

Back to top
Ready
jasujazumdinski