Skip to main content
opens in new tab or window
In This Section

Police  - Police Zones    - Police Headquarters
Police Zone 1
Police Zone 2
Police Zone 3
Police Zone 4
Police Zone 5
Police Zone 6

Police Officer Recruitment
File a Police Report
Submit a Tip
Submit a Silent Complaint
Compliment an Officer
Police Data Portal
Branches
About Police
Fire
Animal Care &amp; Control
Emergency Medical Services
Office of Community Health and Safety
Alerts
Public Safety

Police Zone 4

Connecting the Police and the Community

Numbers to Know
911
Emergency Services
Police, EMS, Fire
211
Emergency Services
Talk with a resource specialist for free
311
Non-Emergency Services
Find information about services, make complaints, or report problems.
988
Suicide and Crisis Lifeline
Free and confidential support for people in distress, prevention and crisis resources
Zone 4 Monthly Crime Statistics (September 2025)
Previous column Next column
| Reports | Arrests | Homicide | Aggravated Assault | Arson | Burglary | Sex Assault | Robbery | Theft |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 491 | 62 | 0 | 10 | 1 | 11 | 10 | 5 | 137 |
jasujazumdinski
Zone 4 2025 Yearly Crime Statistics (Year to Date)
Previous column Next column
| Reports | Arrests | Homicide | Aggravated Assault | Arson | Burglary | Sex Assault | Robbery | Theft |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 3787 | 1493 | 0 | 68 | 11 | 92 | 43 | 39 | 1212 |
Community Alerts and Upcoming Events
Upcoming Events(show below)
Zone 4 Residents,
Here is a list of upcoming events:
Notable Arrests(show below)
Safety Alerts(show below)
Nothing to report at this time.
Citizen &amp; Student Police Academy(show below)
It’s that time of year again! The Citizen Police Academy and the Student Police Academy are now taking registrations. These programs are a great opportunity to learn the roles, training and responsibilities of the Pittsburgh Bureau of Police. To register, fill out the Online Application. We hope to see you there!

Zone 4
Acting Commander William Hohos
5858 Northumberland Street, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15217
(412) 422-6520
william.hohos@pittsburghpa.gov
Sector 1: Squirrel Hill, Point Breeze, Regent Square(show below)
AM Shift: Lt. E. Perri

Sgt. J. Zigarella
Sgt. D. Williams
Sgt. B. Elledge

Sgt. C. Washington

Officer J. Washington

Officer A. Loughran
Officer W. Fuller
Officer S. Gorman

PM Shift: Lt. T. Mitchell

Sgt. N. Kolat
Sgt. R. Stehle

Sgt. D. Sullivan

Officer J. Labella

Officer T. Nestler
Officer T. Burke

Sector 2: Oakland, Shadyside, Uptown(show below)
AM Shift: Lt. E. Perri

Sgt. J. Zigarella
Sgt. D. Williams
Sgt. B. Elledge

Sgt. C. Washington

Officer L. Gabriel

Officer J. Gromek
Officer D. Berberick

PM Shift: Lt. T. Mitchell

Sgt. N. Kolat
Sgt. R. Stehle

Sgt. D. Sullivan

Officer S. Freiss

Sector 3: Hazelwood, Greenfield, Glen Hazel, Duck Hollow, Swisshelm Park(show below)
AM Shift: Lt. E. Perri

Sgt. J. Zigarella
Sgt. D. Williams
Sgt. B. Elledge

Sgt. C. Washington

Officer J. Cerula

Officer S. Flynn
Officer N. Modena

PM Shift: Lt. T. Mitchell

Sgt. N. Kolat
Sgt. R. Stehle

Sgt. D. Sullivan

Officer A. Melocchi

Officer A. Flick
Officer D. Swearingen
Officer M. Bertok
Officer A. Hohol
Officer N. Greer

Sector 4: Hays, New Homestead, Lincoln Place(show below)
AM Shift: Lt. E. Perri

Sgt. J. Zigarella
Sgt. D. Williams
Sgt. B. Elledge

Sgt. C. Washington

Officer R. Petak

Officer T. Llewellyn
Officer J.Kusenko
Officer G. Lee
Officer R. Harnet
Officer R, Henry

PM Shift: Lt. T. Mitchell

Sgt. N. Kolat
Sgt. R. Stehle

Sgt. D. Sullivan

Officer M Salerno

Officer R. Kennedy
Officer A. Herstine
Officer R. Gould
Officer J. Trainer
Officer R. Franks

jasujazumdinski
Community Resources and Groups
Community Resources(show below)
Zone 4 Police Department
The Zone 4 Police Department Homepage
File a Police Report
Police reports can be filed by calling 911 or by visiting the Zone 4 Police Department.
Access Domestic Violence Resources
Resources are available to support victims of abuse.
Apply to become a Police Officer
The City of Pittsburgh is accepting applications for the Police Officer position. Apply today!
Find your neighborhood Block Watch - TBA
Search for Block Watch Groups in your area.
Megan’s Law Electronic Notification System
Sign up to receive email for the individuals currently registered with the Pennsylvania State Police as active sexual offenders pursuant to Pennsylvania’s Megan’s Law.
Zone 4 Community Groups(show below)
Point Breeze North
President: Jeff Wetzel
Address: PO Box 5465 Pittsburgh, PA. 15206
Phone: 412-616-2762
Email: www.pointbreezenorth.com/contact
Website: www.pointbreezenorth.com
Meetings: See website for future meetings
We are a non-profit, volunteer run organization made up of people who care for, and are invested in the beautiful neighborhood of Point Breeze North.
If you live here, are a business owner, or own property here, we encourage you to get involved, make an impact, and stay connected.
Point Breeze North received its name from the Point Breeze Hotel, which was located along the Greensburg Turnpike during the early 1800s. This area is now the intersection of Fifth and Penn Avenue.
McPherson and Thomas, the major streets, emulate French boulevards, with wide, divided roads, floral islands, and a mixture of apartments and mansions. It remains as it was then: an area of distinctive and mixed historical styles, from Civil War row houses to 1920s villas, to Victorian gingerbread homes. Westinghouse Park derived its name from the Westinghouse mansion that was in North Point Breeze since its beginning.

jasujazumdinski
Shadyside Chamber of Commerce
Address: 5428 Walnut Street, Mailbox 101Pittsburgh, PA 15232
Phone: 412-650-0430, 412-682-1298
Website: www.thinkshadyside.com
Meetings: See website for future meetings
The Shadyside Chamber of Commerce works to prioritize the needs of merchants within the community. We are currently restructuring and refocusing the efforts of the Chamber of Commerce, to ensure that we remain a service driven organization that is innovative, proactive, and always striving to foster an inclusive climate that serves in the best interest of its members.
Our Mission
The mission of the Shadyside Chamber of Commerce is to enhance the economic vitality within the community in which we live, work, and play.
Our Vision
We envision a vibrant business district in which we help our community flourish, grow and sustain.

Regent Square Civic Association
Co-Presidents: Christine Furman &amp; Adam Wasilko
Address: Wilkins School Community Center 7604 Charleston Ave, Pittsburgh, PA 15218
Website: rsca.online
Meetings: Check website for upcoming meetings
RSCA Mission
The RSCA serves the Regent Square community by acting as a liaison to the municipalities, improving community safety, enriching the environment, and enhancing the quality of life of its citizens through positive participatory actions.
It is RSCA’s mission to:

Continuously improve the quality of life in the Regent Square neighborhood
Organize relevant community events when needed
Initiate neighborhood improvement
Act as a positive advocate on important community-wide issues; and 2.2.5. disseminate relevant information to the community

PBO's mission is to engage residents and businesses to enhance the quality of life in Point Breeze.
We invite all Point Breeze residents and businesses to join, and we do not charge dues. You do not have to be a PBO member to attend events, but becoming a member gives you a voice in our activities and important neighborhood decisions and improves the chances that public officials will hear our concerns.
The PBO is a 501(c)(3) organization. Our meetings are open to the public and held at 6:30PM on the second Tuesday of March, May, July, September, and November. The location may vary. Please contact info@pointbreezepgh.org to receive additional information about attending a meeting.

jasujazumdinski
The South Oakland Neighborhood Group (SONG)
Address: Frazier Field House 3716 Frazier Street Pittsburgh, PA. 15213
Website: southoaklandpgh.org
Facebook: South Oakland Neighborhood Group Pgh
Twitter: @SONG_Pgh
Meetings: SONG meets the first Tuesday of every month at Frazier Fieldhouse on Frazier St, and other events as well. Check the home page for more information.
About
Is a a community organization of residents, primarily focused on the South Oakland Neighborhood, but also Oakland and Pittsburgh in general, to improve the quality of life for all residents, including students and local businesses through improved and expanded communication and involvement. Any interested parties are encouraged to participate and contribute.

Squirrel Hill Urban Coalition
President: Martha Isler
Address: 5604 Solway St. Pittsburgh, PA. 15217
Phone: 412-422-7666
Website: shuc.org
Email: info@shuc.org
Established in 1972, the Squirrel Hill Urban Coalition gives voice to the hopes and concerns of our residents, institutions, businesses and visitors and works to preserve, improve, and celebrate the quality of life in our vibrant urban Squirrel Hill neighborhood. Our mission is implemented through a long range planning process, fostering community-based initiatives in the areas of education, public safety, transportation, parks and open spaces, plus commercial, institutional and residential development. Volunteer-supported committees provide leadership to our community by studying, debating, and advocating positions on issues affecting our neighborhood’s vitality

jasujazumdinski
West Oakland Neighborhood Council - The Corner
Address: 200 Robinson St. Pittsburgh, PA 15213
Phone: 412-436-9127
Email: info@cornerpgh.org
Website: www.cornerpgh.org
Follow Us: @CornerPgh
The Corner is a grassroots community outreach program and multi-purpose space of Friendship Community Church located between the Oakland and Hill District neighborhoods.
Since 2011, The Corner program has served as a pinnacle of cultural enrichment and a thriving center for the arts, social justice advocacy, education, resource accessibility, and community engagement.
The Corner's Mission
To provide arts and social safety net programming through a welcoming “third place” space model for residents of West Oakland, Oak Hill, the Hill District, and greater Pittsburgh community.

Oakcliffe Community Organization of South Oakland
President: Dave Panasiuk
Address: 328 Ophelia Street Pittsburgh 15213
Website: oakcliffe.org
Email: oakcliffe.org@gmail.com
Meetings
2nd Wednesday of each month 7:00 PM in person @ 3240 Craft Place or on virtual zoom. Website has zoom link.
Mission
The purpose of the Oakcliffe Community Organization is to foster community involvement in conserving and improving the Oakcliffe neighborhood, petition government for public services, and carry out programs of community improvement.

Greater Park Place Neighborhood Association (GPPNA)
Contact: Mary Hupe
Address: 590 S. Braddock Ave. Pittsburgh, PA. 15221
Email: greaterparkplace@gmail.com
Facebook: www.facebook.com/groups/ParkPlacePgh/
Meetings: Quarterly- see Facebook for details
A group for residents and fans of Pittsburgh's Park Place neighborhood!
Park Place is nestled next to Frick Park on the eastern edge of the City of Pittsburgh and includes a few blocks of Wilkinsburg. Home to many beautiful and historic houses, including the Old Heidelberg apartment building, Park Place is a diverse community with engaged and friendly residents represented by the Greater Park Place Neighborhood Association (GPPNA).

jasujazumdinski
31st Ward
President: Ryan Herbinko
Address
Website: 31stWardCAG.org
Email: ExecutiveBoard@31stWardCAG.org
Facebook: www.facebook.com/groups/217983421573389/
Meetings: 2nd Tuesday of the month at 7:00 PM 1202 Muldowney Ave. Pittsburgh, PA. 15207(parking is on Cooley Way)
The 31st Ward Community Action Group was established to bring the residents of our community together, advocate for the neighborhoods' needs, and to support the youth, veterans, businesses and senior citizens of the 31st Ward and surrounding areas.
31ST Ward
Neighborhood Information
The 31st Ward is located in the southeastern corner of the City of Pittsburgh. It is comprised of four neighborhoods: Lincoln Place, Hays, New Homestead and Gates Manor. Against the backdrop of Pittsburgh’s Historic Steel Valley, the 31st Ward’s unique characteristics give a distinct suburban feel to urban living. The area is home to a multitude of greenspaces and parks as well as a growing business district.

The Greenfield Community Association (GCA)
President: Gina Godfrey
Address: P.O. Box 5605 Pittsburgh, PA. 15207
Email: info@gcapgh.org
Website: gcapgh.org
Facebook: www.facebook.com/pg/GCAPGH
Meetings are on hold for now, but please check back in via website or Facebook
The Greenfield Community Association is a 501c3 formed in the Summer of 2012 as a successor to Greenfield’s two established community organizations – Greenfield Organization and Connect Greenfield. Its role is to capture the strengths of both organizations and ensure that the residents of Greenfield continue to have a strong organization working to improve the community.
Mission
Fund, support, develop, and enhance community spirit, athletic activities, and philanthropy among the residents of Greenfield in the 15th Ward -Pittsburgh, PA.
The GCA is committed to preserving and improving the physical, social, and economic health of Greenfield by facilitating volunteerism, nurturing community identity and development, and enhancing the quality of life for residents. We engage in community-based problem solving, support neighborhood-oriented services, and foster public/private cooperation.

jasujazumdinski
Uncover Squirrel Hill
Address: 5884 Forbes Ave. Pittsburgh, PA. 15217
Email: hello@uncoversquirrelhill.com
Website: www.uncoversquirrelhill.com
Please check out their website for membership and meeting details.
Mission
Re-energized in 2014, Uncover Squirrel Hill seeks to capitalize on its rich history by invigorating the formal network of businesses in the Forbes, Murray and Forward Aves corridor, and eventually throughout Squirrel Hill. Uncover Squirrel Hill gives a voice to the business owners and provides access and communication to the Mayor’s Office with representatives from Police, the office of Community Affairs and Public Works.
As a business-member-based organization, Uncover Squirrel Hill aims to bring the diverse merchant base together to meet goals and plans developed by its member businesses.
Uncover Squirrel Hill helps:

Organize the merchants to develop and maintain a highly visible role in the community.
Work with local community leaders to ensure the development and continued improvement of the neighborhood business district.
Open and maintain lines of communication with business and property owners.
Organize and secure funds to help meet the Association’s vision and goals.

Zone Four Public Safety Council
President: Dennis Downey
Email: pghzone4publicsafetycouncil@gmail.com
Facebook: www.facebook.com/Zone4PublicSafety/
Meetings: 3rd Thursday of the month 6:30 PM at the JCC 5738 Forbes Ave. Pittsburgh, PA. 15217 (Kindly use the rear entrance at 5738 Darlington Road)
Zone 4 Public Safety Council acts as liaisons between the City of Pittsburgh Department of Public Safety and the community it serves.
Zone 4 Communities: Oakland, Shadyside, Squirrel Hill, Point Breeze, Regent Square, Swisshelm, Greenfield, Hazelwood, Lincoln Place, Glen Hazel. Duck Hollow, Uptown, Hays, New Homestead
jasujazumdinski
Our Community

last updated: 10/06/2025
Back to top
Ready
jasujazumdinski