opens in new tab or window
In This Section
City Planning  - About City Planning
City Planning Meeting Calendar
City Planning Public Notices
Commissions and Boards
Historic Preservation Program
Public Art Program
Neighborhood Planning
Master & Neighborhood Plans    - Sheraden Park Master Plan
South Side Park Master Plan
Ecoinnovation District
Greater Hazelwood Neighborhood Plan
Greater Hill District Master Plan
Homewood Community Plan
Manchester Chateau Neighborhood Plan
The Oakland Plan
City Planning Projects
City Planning Programs
Development Review Process Guides
Mobility and Infrastructure
Permits, Licenses, and Inspections
Digital Equity In Pittsburgh
Small Business Resources
Public Works
Zoning
Geographic Information Systems, Mapping & Open Data
Procurement
PGH Lab
Sustainability
Get Involved
Engagement Opportunities
The City’s neighborhood planning process includes many opportunities for active involvement:
Steering Committee: A group of 20-30 representatives of a broad range of interests in the community. This group guides the planning process, with members also expected to join Action Teams.
Action Teams: Topic-focused groups that spend a year developing projects and programs. These groups are open to all interested community members and stakeholders.
Community Events: Due to COVID-19, there will be few public in-person events for the foreseeable future. In place of these events, online engagement will occur using an innovative new website to be launched shortly.
Online Engagement: Engage PGH is designed to work on mobile devices, can be read by screen readers and translating software, and allows people to engage when it's convenient for them. In the coming months, we will roll out additional features and technologies to overcome the digital divide.
Learn about Action Teams
jasujazumdinski
Previous Community Events and Workshops
Planning Education Series(PDF, 732KB)
To help communities fully engage in the upcoming planning process, the City of Pittsburgh, partner organizations, and non-profits organized events to introduce the topics of the neighborhood planning process in a fun and informal environment. This allowed interested stakeholders to learn about topics before the planning work begins, so they can be better informed and more effective advocates for their communities.
Previous column Next column