Skip to main content
opens in new tab or window
Gender Equity Resources
The GEC Supports AAPI Communities
March 23, 2021
Hate crimes against Asians in the US rose in connection with the COVID-19 pandemic throughout 2020 and early 2021.
One week ago, several Asian American women were among those killed in Atlanta and the immediate aftermath repeated histories of racial stereotyping.
The Gender Equity Commission exists to support a more equitable city for all residents and to help end discrimination against women, girls, and gender-diverse people.
Our work is, and will continue to be, intersectional in nature, because we know this violence will not end unless we call out the root causes of white supremacy, patriarchy, and those systems and sentiments that support them.
Read the full statement(PDF, 122KB) from members of the Commission.

"Gendering the Pandemic"
On April 15, 2020, the GEC hosted an online Town Hall to address gendered impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic. Watch the video recording of the GEC's virtual Town Hall.
The event was emceed by GEC Chair Dr. Jessie Ramey and featured these local leaders discussing how gender intersects with race, LGBTQ+ needs, domestic violence, poverty, and pregnancy in these unprecedented times:

Nicole Molinaro (Women’s Center &amp; Shelter of Greater Pittsburgh)
Jada Shirriel (Healthy Start, Inc)
Ciora Thomas (SisTers PGH)
Tammy T. Thompson (Circles Greater Pittsburgh)

After the event, the GEC created an overview of resources for local communities.

jasujazumdinski
Educating Ourselves About Gender
Gender and Sex 101: Gender Equity in the Classroom and Beyond(PDF, 3MB)
A 'gender and sex 101' resource created by Jessie Ramey, the Director of Chatham's Women's Institute and a Gender Equity Commissioner (April 2020).
Gender and Sexuality: Binary or Fluid?
While one might assume that that there are "opposite" genders or sexes, many people self-identify as trans or gender non-conforming. And TSER (Trans Student Education Resources)-- a national organization led entirely by trans youth-- points out the distinctions between gender identity, gender presentation/expression, sex, and attraction. They advocate for recognition that people might identify as, express themselves as, and be attracted to, many genders. Learn more on the TSER website.

Gender Equity Reports and Initiatives
Supporting the Transgender Community: Gender Affirming Care Resources
For transgender and nonbinary individuals, early and continued access to gender-affirming care is critical to improving confidence and allowing people to use their focus for transitioning socially while navigating the complex and sometimes unwelcoming healthcare system.
Femisphere Initiative
Femisphere is an initiative of the Women and Girls Foundation of Pittsburgh focused on investing in strategic initiatives to break down barriers that prevent mothers and children from being economially secure. "With Femisphere, the Women and Girls Foundation will reimagine Pittsburgh as a place that puts women at the center of economic growth and poverty reduction efforts."
Inequities Affecting Black Girls in Pittsburgh and Allegheny County
The FISA Foundation commissioned this data snapshot to draw attention to gender and racial disparities faced by Black girls in the Pittsburgh region.
Gender Equity Through Human Rights: Local Efforts to Advance the Status of Women and Girls in the U.S.
The Columbia Law School Human Rights Institute studied ways in which local governments in the U.S. incorporated human rights in their efforts to advance gender equity. This study addresses the benefits of addressing women's rights through a human rights lens. The GEC approach is inspired by such efforts.
Cities for CEDAW Campaign
Cities for CEDAW (The Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination Against Women) is a campaign to “Make the Global Local” and protect the rights of women and girls by passing legislation in cities and towns across the United States. In 2016, Pittsburgh became the 6th U.S. city to pass a local CEDAW ordinance. Join the CEDAW movement in your city!
"The Simple Truth About the Gender Pay Gap"(PDF, 2MB)
The American Association of University Women (AAUW) created a presentation comparing women's and men's median salaries. Their findings discuss causes of the gender pay gap, the gap's connection to sexual orientation and identity, and solutions to fix this difference.
jasujazumdinski
GEC Section

Gender Equity Commission
About the Gender Equity Commission
Commission Members
Monthly Public Meetings
Reports and Policy Recommendations
Workforce Equity
Gender Equity Resources
Connect with Us

last updated: 04/22/2025
Back to top
Ready
jasujazumdinski