Skip to main content
opens in new tab or window
In This Section

Parks  - Our Parks
For Kids    - Rec2Tech
KidSMART Club
CitiCamp
Tot Camp
Alphabet Trail &amp; Tales
Track &amp; Treat

For Seniors
Dog Parks
Tennis
CitiSports
Outdoor Activities
City Farms
Community Garden Plots
Pools
Events
Park Facilities
Special Events
Film &amp; Event Management
Park Permits
About Parks

Rec2Tech

The Office of the Mayor began the conversation of connecting kids of all colors in the urban community to 21st Century tech skill sets. By providing a safe space in their community to foster those skills we at CitiParks look forward to fulfilling this mission through our Rec2Tech programming.
Rec2Tech will demonstrate how we can use existing city resources to increase access to technology for; and provide young people with the 21st Century learning opportunities they will need to succeed in innovation and technology fields. Ultimately, Rec2Tech will help bridge the divide and provide access to opportunities for people in their own neighborhood and community.
One of the ways in which CitiParks has been able to get our Rec2Tech Program started is through an award from the National Science Foundation. With this funding, Citiparks has teamed up with Baltimore City and the Digital Harbor Foundation to address the digital divide through innovative Rec2Tech programming.
See our very first Rec2Tech Coding Class that was held at Paulson Rec Center!
Coming Soon Stay in the know with all things Rec2Tech—sign up for our Rec2Tech e-Blast list today!
Can't wait? Check out our Classes, Cohorts &amp; Clubhouse.

Classes &amp; Cohorts\
\
\
\
Join free virtual and in-person tech classes led by Mr. Max Dennison, explore Tech Talks with industry pros, and stay updated on our Coding Clubhouse. Explore the future of tech education in Pittsburgh today!
Partnerships Sponsors\
\
\
\
Explore our dynamic partnerships with Digital Harbor Foundation and the National Science Foundation, plus support from sponsors like the Penguins and First National Bank. See how these collaborations are shaping our community.
Open Source Code\
\
\
\
Discover Open Source Code with Rec2Tech! From beginners to seasoned coders, explore educational opportunities, projects, and tutorials. Dive in and enhance your coding skills today!
last updated: 04/07/2025
Back to top
Ready
jasujazumdinski