opens in new tab or window
Councilman Wilson continues efforts to fund the Pittsburgh Land Bank
Published on May 29, 2025
Pittsburgh, PA (May 29, 2025)-- Councilman Bobby Wilson (District 1) continues to prioritize the financial future of the Pittsburgh Land Bank with the recent introduction of a resolution calling for the creation of a task force to develop recommendations for its long-term financial sustainability. The resolution, co-sponsored by Council President Daniel Lavelle, Finance and Law Committee Chair Councilperson Erika Strassburger, and Councilman Khari Mosley, will be discussed at today’s Standing Committee Meeting.
“I’m committed to reducing the amount of vacant and blighted property throughout the City,” said Councilman Wilson. “The Pittsburgh Land Bank has successfully moved numerous properties to new owners, returning them to the city’s tax rolls, ultimately increasing the City’s finances to provide basic services to residents. In the 2025 Capital Budget, I successfully allocated funds to provide two additional staff members to the Land Bank. However, the City’s COVID-19 relief funding—which has supported many of the Land Bank’s operations—is projected to run out at the end of 2026, and the Land Bank currently has no secured funding beyond that point. It’s crucial that there is a collective conversation and plan for the Land Bank’s long-term future.”
The Task Force will be comprised of 9 members, representing the Land Bank, City Council, the Mayor’s Office, Department of City Planning, and the Urban Redevelopment Authority with the goal of reviewing the current and projected financial position of the Pittsburgh Land Bank.
“As we work to revitalize neighborhoods and address the persistent issue of blight, the Pittsburgh Land Bank must have the resources to be an effective partner in equitable development,” Council President Lavelle stated. “I co-sponsored this legislation because sustainable funding is essential to ensuring the Land Bank can fulfill its mission and help return properties to productive, community-serving use—particularly in historically disinvested areas.”
Other goals of the Task Force include exploring models used by other land banks nationally, identifying potential public, private, and hybrid funding sources, and recommending actionable strategies for recurring support, including legislative or budgetary options. A report will be compiled and submitted to City Council and the Land Bank Board no later than 90 days after the first meeting. This will ensure there is adequate time to review and submit for funding in the 2026 Capital Budget.
Kendall Pelling, Executive Director of Rising Tide Partners, recently partnered with the Pittsburgh Land Bank to acquire 38 properties along Hamilton Avenue in their plans to redevelop over 6 blocks of blight in Homewood. “Our communities need a fully funded Land Bank to be our partner in transforming blight into new housing opportunities. I’ve seen other cities and states do this well. Pittsburgh can get it done.”
Acting Executive Director of the Pittsburgh Land Bank, Sally Stadelman, echoed the call for a fully funded Land Bank. “Without a serious, sustainable investment in the Pittsburgh Land Bank, taxpayers can expect to continue to pay millions for demolitions that leave behind empty lots instead of homes. Supporting the Land Bank means more homes for families and a stronger, more sustainable tax base for our city.”
Councilperson Erika Strassburger added, "the success of the Pittsburgh Land Bank is crucial to our city's future, and the Sustainable Funding Task Force will help the Land Bank achieve its full potential. Councilman Wilson has been a tireless champion for the Land Bank throughout his time on Council, and I'm proud to co-sponsor his latest initiative to help it operate at an even higher capacity."
Julianne Hluska
Chief of Staff
Councilman Bobby Wilson
Julianne.hluska@pittsburghpa.gov
412-676-5758
Tagged as:
City Council
Back to top
Ready
jasujazumdinski