Skip to main content
opens in new tab or window
In This Section

Police
Fire
Animal Care &amp; Control
Emergency Medical Services
Office of Community Health and Safety  - Health and Safety Resources
Meet the Staff
Community Office Hours
Join Our Team!
Community Engagement
Announcements &amp; Press Releases
Newsletter
Contact Form
Alerts
Public Safety

Join Our Team!
The Office of Community Health and Safety is building up its team! We are looking for compassionate individuals who are interested in providing support to help address the health, safety, and social needs of City residents.
ROOTS Senior Outreach Specialist
The ROOTS Senior Outreach Specialist position will be community-based and primarily responsible for conducting outreach and providing support to individuals experiencing housing instability or homelessness. Current ROOTS sites are located in the Northside, Downtown and East Liberty, respectively in Police Zones 1, 2, and 5.
ROOTS Outreach Site Support Coordinator
The ROOTS Outreach Site Support Coordinator will support the Outreach Site Manager in the daily operation of a ROOTS site and in providing services to the unhoused population. The Outreach Site Support Coordinator will carry a case load, help address daily living needs, facilitate transportation to appointments, and other duties that facilitate the smooth operation of the site in the delivery of service. Current ROOTS sites are located in the Northside, Downtown and East Liberty, respectively in Police Zones 1, 2, and 5.
ROOTS Community Health Worker
ROOTS Community Health Worker will support the ROOTS Outreach Specialist and other outreach staff to address client needs. The successful incumbent will work diligently to ensure that clients establish service connections and receive care. This will include, but is not limited to: accompanying clients to appointments, coordinating transportation, distributing basic needs supplies, and facilitating connection to teams and internal resources.
Community Social Worker
The Community Social Worker (CSW) will work with a team of colleagues to identify and support individuals whose needs are not met by the traditional Public Safety response paradigm. Engagements will focus on addressing barriers to consistent care, resources, and treatment that result in Public Safety engagements.
POST Case Manager
The Post Overdose Support Team (POST) is a collaborative program involving local first-responders, certified peer recovery specialists, case managers, treatment providers, and social service providers designed to provide supports to individuals who have experienced an overdose and refused medical care. The POST initiative for the City of Pittsburgh will provide people with substance use disorder and co-occurring needs with person-centered social services and intense case management focused on harm reduction and compassion in lieu of criminalization and stigmatization. These individuals will be engaged in supportive services with the goal of reducing their likelihood of experiencing another overdose and improving quality of life.
Victim Assistance Specialist
The Victim Assistance Specialist (VAS) will work with OCH&amp;S's Continuum of Support, Center for Victims, Women's Center &amp; Shelter, Group Violence Intervention (GVI), and other services to provide direct support to community members who are victims of intimate partner violence (IPV), other categories of violent crime, and instances of trauma and grief.
LEAD Case Manager
The Law Enforcement Assisted Diversion (LEAD) initiative for the City of Pittsburgh will provide people with substance use disorder and mental and behavioral health challenges with person-centered social services and intense case management focused on harm reduction and compassion in lieu of criminalization. These individuals will be engaged in supportive services with the goal of reducing legal recidivism and improving quality of life.
LEAD Team Lead
The LEAD Team Lead position will be responsible for the daily supervision of LEAD Case Managers, leveraging deep knowledge of services available to clients and facilitating the review of referrals from the Pittsburgh Bureau of Police. The successful incumbent will possess expertise in administrative and field leadership and the ability to successfully manage relationships with stakeholders. This position will also collaborate with the LEAD Program Manager and other Office of Community Health and Safety (OCH&amp;S) leadership in project development.  The Team Lead will work closely with the Co-Response, Reaching Out On The Streets, and Post Overdose Support Teams, and other OCH&amp;S programs
Co-Response Clinician
The Co-Response Clinician (CRC)is a Masters-level position embedded in the Co-Response program. Reporting tothe Social Work Manger, the CRC works directly alongside designated Pittsburgh Bureau of Police personnel to provide crisis intervention and support during emergent calls for service. This role is critical in bridging public health and public safety to address community needs in real time.
jasujazumdinski
Contact Us
Camila Alarcon-Chelecki
Assistant Director, Department of Public Safety, Office of Community Health and Safety
ochspgh@pittsburghpa.gov
last updated: 04/22/2025
Back to top
Ready
jasujazumdinski