opens in new tab or window
In This Section
City Planning
Mobility and Infrastructure
Permits, Licenses, and Inspections  - Applications & Forms
OneStopPGH
Permits
Licenses    - Business Licenses
Contractor Licenses
Trade Licenses
Bulletins
Community Resources
Code Enforcement
Condemned Buildings
PLI Fees
Building Codes
Appeals
PLI Contacts
Announcements
Registrations
Digital Equity In Pittsburgh
Small Business Resources
Public Works
Zoning
Geographic Information Systems, Mapping & Open Data
Procurement
PGH Lab
Sustainability
Parking Lot License
The City of Pittsburgh requires a Parking Lot License for anyone who conducts any commercial revenue-generating parking place or lot. Please see Chapter 763 of the City Code and the PLI Licensing Rules and Regulations(PDF, 626KB).
The following revenue generating commercial parking lots are exempt from the Parking Lot License:
Any parking garage or place that is provided or leased exclusively to occupants of a residence, or parking garage or place where at least 80% of spaces are provided to residents on the same or other premises for use only in connection to the residence.
Parking place or garage that is provided exclusively for guests or tenants of a hotel, tourist court, or trailer park.
Parking by an employee for a fee in a parking lot owned or operated by or for his or her employer at the employee's regular place of business (PCC 763.04).
jasujazumdinski
Application Process
Prepare Required Documents
Check below for a list of license requirements
For more detailed info, check out the Rules and Regulations(PDF, 626KB)
Complete Application
Fill out an application online!
Submit Documents and Payment
Check the cost of your license application fee here: Current Fee Schedule
Inspections
New licenses are subject to inspection by PLI prior to issuance.
Renewed licenses are subject to periodic maintenance inspections.
License Requirements
Certificate of occupancy for use as a parking lot. Search for existing certificates of occupancy.
City of Pittsburgh tax compliance letter from the City Finance department.
General Liability insurance certificate with the City of Pittsburgh listed as certificate holder.
Valid government-issued photo ID of the applicant.
Sketch or plot drawing of details of the lot. For parking garages, a description of the number of uniformed security and floor plans should be included.
Late Fees
A late fee will be charged the day after your license expires. If your license is not renewed within 30 days of expiration, it is considered lapsed and closed. All business licenses expire a year from the date of issuance.
Resources
Looking for additional info or clarification on your license requirements?
Check out the Rules and Regulations(PDF, 626KB)
Where can I find my certificate of occupancy?
Check out PLI's online Occupancy Search
How do I get a tax certification letter?
Call or email the Department of Finance
jasujazumdinski
Insurance Info
A non-expired Certificate of Insurance showing general liability coverage for the applicant at the location where licensed activity will take place, and listing the City of Pittsburgh as the certificate holder and additionally insured. General liability insurance minimums as follows: $1,000,000 each occurrence, $2,000,000 general aggregate.
Worker’s Compensation Insurance: A Certificate of Insurance showing Worker's Compensation coverage for the applicant business and listing the City of Pittsburgh as the certificate holder. If the business does not have any employees, then upload a notarized statement attesting that there are no employees.
Department of Permits, Licenses and Inspections Workers' Compensation Exemption Affidavit(PDF, 72KB).
last updated: 04/24/2025
Back to top
Ready
jasujazumdinski