Skip to main content
opens in new tab or window
jasujazumdinski
2021
Download Article to PDF
| Title | Article | Post Date |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Pittsburgh Selected for Reforestation Hubs Initiative | PITTSBURGH, PA (January 4, 2021) The City of Pittsburgh has been selected by Cambium Carbon in partnership with the Arbor Day Foundation as one of four cities nationally to receive a “Reforestation Hub” assessment, which includes the development of an innovative pilot project geared toward improving resource efficiency and carbon capture at the municipal level with the Department of City Planning Office of Sustainability &amp; Resilience, Department of Public Works Forestry Division, and community partners. These projects will lay the groundwork for a circular urban forestry system that will include urban wood reuse and carbon credits to finance healthy forests, restoration of public lands, and the recovery and expansion of the tree canopy.   Despite the positive impacts urban forests have in combating climate change and providing community benefits, American cities lose an average 36 million trees each year due to factors such as disease, age, and development, which results in economic losses up to $786 million annually. The City of Pittsburgh’s tree canopy coverage is currently estimated at 41%, after a loss of 3% of total landcover between 2010 and 2015. Contributors to local canopy loss in the city include development pressure; pests, invasive species, and disease; and lack of maintenance, capacity, and funding. Reforestation Hubs aim to close the loop on urban wood waste by finding ways to upcycle removed trees to their highest use while generating new revenues to support tree planting and maintenance.   “City governments need to find new sources of funding to recover from the pandemic and providing healthy, accessible outdoor open spaces has proven critically important for the health of our residents over the last nine months,” said Mayor William Peduto. “The City of Pittsburgh is very excited for this timely opportunity to explore new methods of ecological and financial resilience that seek to enhance our tree canopy and greenspaces to improve resident well-being.”  The City’s work with Cambium Carbon will explore two new revenue sources for forest maintenance: first, finding a pathway for wood reuse from fallen city trees and handling wood debris in-house. Additionally, the project will assess the sale of carbon credits as a means of subsidizing restoration of public lands, with particular focus on the greenways system. The intention is to use these new financing mechanisms and efficiencies to properly resource the Department of Public Works’ Forestry Division and nonprofit partners to increase tree canopy and improve the health of Pittsburgh’s unmanaged greenways and urban forest. Much of the City of Pittsburgh’s green space was consolidated into the Greenways for Pittsburgh program in the 1980s. Greenways comprise 1,200 acres across 13 sites throughout city neighborhoods and have faced significant neglect over time. The City's Climate Action Plan 3.0 calls for increases in tree canopy coverage and carbon sequestration, as well as for unmanaged open space to be properly valued for its ecosystem services and not looked at as a loss of tax revenue. As the weather becomes wetter, hotter, and more unpredictable in Pittsburgh, our urban ecosystems need to be valued as a first line of defense against the changing climate.  “Pittsburgh’s tree canopy and urban forests provide many benefits, but resources are needed to make all of our greenspaces the community assets they should be,” said Lisa Ceoffe, City Forester. “Optimizing the health of some of our unmanaged public properties and increasing tree canopy will create more opportunities for recreation, improve stormwater management, provide shade and cooling in summer months, stabilize our hillsides, sequester carbon and air pollution, and deter dumping.”  The City of Pittsburgh will be joining Denver, Colorado, Eugene, Oregon and New York City, New York in the Reforestation Hubs programs. These cities’ projects will build off of the work of innovative peer cities, including that of The Baltimore Wood Project and Philadelphia Parks and Recreation.   “These pilots are step one in building a circular economy for urban forestry,” said Marisa Repka, Co-Founder and City Partnerships Lead at Cambium Carbon. “We’re excited to work with our city partners to make the case for infrastructure and policy that will improve resource efficiency, create new jobs, and foster community resilience.”   In addition, Cambium Carbon will be launching a Reforestation Hubs Peer Working Group to share learnings, resources, and opportunities. To join or learn more, please email marisa@cambiumcarbon.com.    About Cambium Carbon: Cambium Carbon is a social impact venture working to reforest America by enabling local wood economies. The company is born out of the World Resources Institute and was developed through Yale University’s entrepreneurship program. Cambium Carbon’s goal is to plant one billion new trees across the US by the year 2030. Learn more at www.cambiumcarbon.comAbout Arbor Day Foundation: Founded in 1972, the Arbor Day Foundation is the largest 501(c)3 nonprofit membership organization dedicated to planting trees. More than 1 million members, supporters, and valued partners have helped the Arbor Day Foundation plant more than 350 million trees in neighborhoods, communities, cities, and forests throughout the world to ensure a greener and healthier future for everyone. This press release was updated on 1/8/2021 to reflect updated data for the city's tree canopy coverage and estimated loss between 2010 and 2015. It was previously reported at 36% with a 6% loss between 2010 and 2015. Questions regarding tree canopy and total landcover data can be directed to Tree Pittsburgh at info@treepittsburgh.org or 412-781-8733. | 4/1/2021 11:18:14 |
| City Announces Updates to Snow Operations | PITTSBURGH, PA (January 4, 2021)  Mayor William Peduto and City Council Public Works Committee Chairman Anthony Coghill announced new snow operations procedures effective immediately to improve the City’s response and treatment of city streets during inclement winter weather. The new procedures are part of the City's commitment that every street in the city should be treated quickly and effectively.  Operational improvements include updates to staffing procedures, improvements to Snow Plow Tracker, and working to ensure the right amount of salt is distributed on streets. The Mayor’s Office worked with the Department of Public Works (DPW), Pittsburgh Joint Collective Bargaining Committee (PJCBC) chairman Joseph Laquatra and his designated representatives, and Councilman Coghill to develop the new plans.   The City and PJCBC, who represents hundreds of DPW employees, developed a sidebar union agreement establishing an improved procedure for communicating with and assigning staff during snow events to ensure an appropriate number of vehicles are out to treat and clear streets. The procedure includes a new mass texting and robocall system to make sure employees are reached and notified of overtime opportunities faster.  When they receive the call or text, employees are able to volunteer for available slots. If overtime slots are not filled voluntarily, the process moves to assigning mandated overtime to employees by reverse seniority. If available staffing slots remain unfilled, the City can then call in private contractors.   During the Christmas snowfall, data from vehicles who were in a specific mode for salt distribution was not being shared to Snow Plow Tracker, so there were several trucks on the road that were not showing up on the map. This discrepancy has been addressed and trucks who are in this mode will now show up on the tracker. The Snow Plow Tracker website has been updated to advise users that not all plowing vehicles may be visible on the map when activated. Snow Plow Tracker is an important part of the City's commitment to transparency and accountability. Additionally, DPW identified that some streets during the last snowfall were receiving inadequate amounts of salt from trucks. Public Works staff is working with supervisors, heavy equipment maintenance, and vendors to make sure that the right amount of salt is being dropped when trucks are working their routes.  "Keeping our roads safe for all users during winter storms is a fundamental responsibility of city government. We will continue to use technology, best practices, and partnerships with our workforce and unions to provide the public the services they deserve," said Mayor William Peduto.  “The Mayor and I are committed to improving the treatment of our roads for all residents and neighborhoods in District 4 and the City at large, and the changes being announced today are the result of a review of operational procedures and will result in clear and direct improvement in snow treatment,” said Councilman Coghill. “I am appreciative of the work of the administration, the PJCBC, and DPW to address these issues following December’s record setting storms.” This operations update builds upon additional improvements that have been implemented in recent years, including training additional drivers, reviewing 311 reports to ensure equitable service in our neighborhoods, and adjusting optimized routes to address recurring areas of concern. | 4/1/2021 15:07:46 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Monday, January 4, 2021 | Meeting with Richard GarlandTime: 1:30 p.m.Meeting with John ValentineTime: 3:00 p.m. | 4/1/2021 09:01:32 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Tuesday, January 5, 2021 | No public events scheduled. | 5/1/2021 08:57:15 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Wednesday, January 6, 2021 | Meeting with Sports and Exhibition Authority and Urban Redevelopment AuthorityTime: 10:00 a.m.Meeting with Staff on Marshall Plan for Middle AmericaTime: 1:00 p.m. | 6/1/2021 08:59:57 |
| Full Closure of Boundary Street to Begin Monday | PITTSBURGH, PA (January 7, 2021) The City of Pittsburgh’s Department of Mobility &amp; Infrastructure is announcing a full closure of Boundary Street between Joncaire Street and South Neville Street for Duquesne Light’s installation of a new duct bank for their new substation.This closure will be in place for approximately 11 weeks starting Monday, January 11, 2021 through April 4, 2021.The detour is as follows:Northbound – Joncaire Street to South Bouquet Street to Forbes Avenue to South Bellefield Avenue to Fifth Avenue to South Neville StreetSouthbound – South Neville Street to Fifth Avenue to South Bouquet Street to Joncaire StreetWe thank users for their cooperation during the closure.  Questions regarding this closure can be directed to the City’s Response Center by dialing 311 or 412-255-2621. | 7/1/2021 11:20:33 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Thursday, January 7, 2021 | Recognition of Mike Gable's RetirementTime: 12:30 p.m.Meeting with Carlow UniversityTime: 1:00 p.m.Meeting with Tom BalestrieriTime: 4:00 p.m. | 7/1/2021 09:13:23 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Friday, January 8, 2021 | No public events scheduled | 8/1/2021 09:57:17 |
| Welcoming Pittsburgh and URA Complete National Welcoming Economies Pilot Program | PITTSBURGH, PA (January 8, 2021) The City of Pittsburgh’s Welcoming Pittsburgh and the Urban Redevelopment Authority (URA) have announced the completion of Welcoming America’s 2020 Welcoming Economies Technical Assistance Pilot (WE Pilot) program.The WE Pilot supports local leaders in advancing policies, programs, partnerships, and practices that include immigrants as part of their local or regional economic strategy.  Throughout the year, the WE Pilot team and other national experts provided the City and URA with more than 20 hours of direct technical assistance, access to subject area experts, hands-on coaching, and peer learning opportunities to advance the economic inclusion of immigrants and contribute to local economic development efforts that impact all residents.  “We are proud of the work that Welcoming Pittsburgh and the URA have accomplished as part of this pilot,” said Mayor William Peduto. “With Welcoming Economies’ support, we are continuing to realize the vision laid out by our immigrant and refugee communities in the Welcoming Pittsburgh Roadmap so that all feel welcome here and find support in successful housing and small business endeavors that make our city stronger.” In 2015, the City launched the Welcoming Pittsburgh Roadmap in partnership with 40 leaders in immigrant, refugee, and international communities and over 3,000 community members. The roadmap provides a community-defined vision and recommended action items to make Pittsburgh welcoming for all. Using the Welcoming Pittsburgh Roadmap as guidance for the WE Pilot, Welcoming Pittsburgh and the URA focused on enhancing interagency and community partnerships and increasing access to housing and small business programs. They implemented the following: Housing Initiatives - Prevented evictions with over 100 immigrant and refugee households through the Housing Stabilization Program- Modified current housing program applications to capture utilization rates by the immigrant and refugee population - Strengthened community partnerships by reporting WE Pilot initiatives and progress during Welcoming Pittsburgh’s bimonthly calls with immigrant and refugee community stakeholders - Developed and implemented a language access plan to ensure information and materials about housing resources from the Housing Opportunity Fund were translated- Implemented a universal language access plan with 15 service providers in the Housing Stabilization Program, ensuring residents have language access from beginning to end - Developed a URA-specific working group tasked with developing and implementing an organization wide Language Access Plan - Collaborated and formalized working relationships between the URA and Welcoming Pittsburgh to further equitable access to housing and economic development Small Business Initiatives - Created goals to support diverse businesses to recover and grow during the COVID-19 pandemic - Modified current small business program applications to capture utilization rates by the immigrant and refugee population - Provided Recovery Loan Program assistance to 11 immigrant-owned businesses - Granted Minority Recovery and Growth funding to four immigrant-owned businesses  - Expanded community partnerships to include organizations that provide business support such as the University of Pittsburgh Small Business Development Center, Bhutanese Community Association of Pittsburgh, and Financial Empowerment Centers - Compiled a growing directory of internationally-owned businesses in the city“The URA is very excited to continue the work we started during the Welcoming Economies pilot to ensure that new city residents are aware of all the programs we have to offer,” said URA Executive Director Greg Flisram. “We can become an even better city when people from all walks of life utilize our tools to build an inclusive and economically resilient Pittsburgh.” Welcoming Pittsburgh and the URA will continue their involvement with Welcoming America beyond the WE Pilot. Jeremy Carter, HOF program manager, and Vethina Hage, housing strategy officer, were recently named to Welcoming America’s Content Advisory Board for the Welcoming Standard. The Welcoming Standard is a guiding set of principles that outlines the core of what it means for communities to be truly welcoming for immigrants, refugees, and all residents. Welcoming Pittsburgh and the URA have formally agreed to continue their partnership beyond the WE Pilot in order to continue working toward improved housing and small business outcomes for immigrant and refugee communities. They are currently conducting a citywide survey to understand what residents need to help increase homeownership in order to design appropriate support programs. All residents are encouraged to participate by February 1, 2021 and the survey is available on Welcoming Pittsburgh’s website. | 8/1/2021 10:14:56 |
| City Announces Sixth PGH Lab Cohort | PITTSBURGH, PA (January 8, 2021) Mayor William Peduto and the City of Pittsburgh Department of Innovation &amp; Performance (I&amp;P) have announced the selection of the sixth cohort of the PGH Lab government incubator program. PGH Lab connects local startup companies with the City of Pittsburgh and local government agencies to explore new ways to use technology and innovative solutions to help improve city operations and the lives of residents. The program provides an opportunity for local startups to test their beta-stage products and services in a real-world environment for up to six months with a city department or partner agency, called their “City Champion,” using Pittsburgh as an urban lab. Since 2016, the City of Pittsburgh and partnering agencies have successfully completed five cycles engaging 24 local startups, putting forth a variety of innovative pilot projects ranging from waste management to immigrant inclusion initiatives. This year, PGH Lab has shifted to focus on tech solutions through an equity lens, to intentionally provide opportunities for startups that are owned and operated by communities typically underrepresented in tech. Two citywide tech issues were highlighted during the application process for startups to provide possible solutions to. First, to address the city’s sidewalk and ADA ramp inventory to better serve resident accessibility needs, and second, to provide possible solutions to the city’s paper and pencil intake forms. Additionally, startups were encouraged to provide solutions for the following categories of: resident engagement, improving city operations (data solutions or smart cities,) and climate change and the environment.  The City of Pittsburgh welcome the sixth cohort of startups that will utilize Pittsburgh as their urban lab:  pathVu records and collects sidewalk and curb ramp data using light detection and ranging (LiDAR) and other technical methods. * Sustainible is an input/output (IO) powered Venture Feasibility Engine that evaluates business models to determine the model’s feasibility and sustainability. * AdSkate helps partnering organizations reach the right audience by providing media support. * Beamdata offers a free civic engagement app (iOS and web platform) called “Be the Change," that connects you to your elected officials and local advocacy. * Civic Champs pilots a mobile app "Helping Hands" that allows individuals and organizations in need of volunteer assistance to be matched with readily available volunteers. * Footbridge for Families fills in the gap for families facing short-term financial crises so they don't require more costly solutions or threaten to overwhelm caregivers. * The Center for Empathy Education provides primarily two services: professional development training and company culture strategizing. * Jireh Mobile o ffers a communication platform that allow residents to communicate in real time with city and county entities.These startup companies will be paired with City Champions throughout city departments and/or partner agencies like the Urban Redevelopment Authority of Pittsburgh, Housing Authority of the City of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh Parking Authority, Allegheny County Airport Authority, Allegheny County Economic Development, Allegheny County Health Department, Pittsburgh Sewer and Water Authority, and Allegheny County Port Authority.For more news and updates to come visit the PGH Lab website, follow PGH Lab on Twitter at @PghIP or follow the Innovation &amp; Performance Medium.For questions contact: Itha Cao – PGH Lab Program Manager at pghlab@pittsburghpa.gov. | 8/1/2021 12:30:56 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Monday, January 11, 2021 | Interview with Tim Schooley of Pittsburgh Business TimesTime: 11 a.m. | 11/1/2021 08:28:45 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Tuesday, January 12, 2021 | Speaking to Leadership Pittsburgh Alumni LuncheonTime: 11 a.m.Speaking on ReImagine Appalachia Panel moderated by City Councilperson Erika Strassburger with Mayors Tito Brown of Youngstown, Steve Patterson of Athens and Steve Williams of HuntingtonTime: 4 p.m. | 12/1/2021 08:51:43 |
| City Offices Closed and Refuse Collection Suspended in Observance of MLK Jr. Day | PITTSBURGH, PA (January 13, 2021) City of Pittsburgh offices and facilities will be closed on Monday, January 18, 2021, in observance of Martin Luther King Jr. Day and refuse collection will be delayed one day.   Refuse and recycling will proceed as follows: Residents with a scheduled collection day of Monday will be serviced on Tuesday, January 19. Those with a scheduled collection day of Tuesday will be serviced on Wednesday, January 20, as so on through Saturday, January 23.  The following facilities will also be closed or on a modified schedule: HEALTHY ACTIVE LIVING CENTERS (Senior Centers)CLOSED—Monday, January 18, 2021 The Grab ‘n Go Meal Schedule will accommodate Seniors with an extra meal on Friday, January 15, 2021 and the regular schedule will resume on Wednesday, January 20, 2021. RECREATION CENTERSCLOSED—Monday, January 18, 2021 The Grab ‘n Go Meal Schedule at Citiparks Recreation Centers will be Tuesday 1/19, Wednesday 1/20 and Friday 1/21 – 9:30 a.m. to 1 :30 p.m. Distribution at Citiparks sponsored locations will be Wednesday 1/20 and Friday 1/21 only. A complete listing of Recreation Center Locations and Sponsored Locations can be found at: https://pittsburghpa.gov/citiparks/after-school-feeding-programSCHENLEY PARK SKATING RINKOpen—Skating Session 4 to 5:30 p.m. COVID-19 Restrictions in place—full details at:  https://pittsburghpa.gov/schenley/rinkMELLON PARK TENNIS CENTEROpen—7 a.m. to 10 p.m. COVID-19 Restrictions in place—full details at:  https://pittsburghpa.gov/citiparks/tennis-mellon-centerOLIVER BATH HOUSERemains closed | 13/1/2021 15:08:13 |
| City Reaches New Agreement for Crossing Guards | PITTSBURGH, PA (January 13, 2020) Mayor William Peduto announced that the City has finalized a new contract for City of Pittsburgh crossing guards. The five-year contract was negotiated with the crossing guards’ representatives from the Service Employees International Union – 192B.  The new contract increases the base wage for crossing guards to $15 per hour with an annual wage increase to 2024. Under previous contracts, crossing guards were not eligible for municipal pension plans since the position was considered part-time. Under the new agreement, crossing guards who work over 200 hours in a year will be able to participate in the municipal pension plan.  “We are excited to have reached this agreement with our crossing guards who provide an important service for our city,” said Mayor William Peduto.  “I’d like to thank SEIU-192B for their cooperation and our crossing guards for their commitment to the safety of our communities.”  The School Crossing Guards division operates from the administrative branch of the Department of Public Safety. In addition to the primary responsibility of ensuring school children and pedestrians can safely cross busy streets and intersections, crossing guards provide additional support and traffic control during special events. During the pandemic, crossing guards have continued to assist children in schools who have been attending in-person classes.   “Being a school crossing guard is a very self rewarding job,” said Elaine Alter, crossing guard supervisor. “Children, parents, motorist, and tourists all rely on the guards daily and look to them for direction. They have become the ambassadors for the City of Pittsburgh — assisting with lost children, directions, or just general information. They are the eyes and ears of the community. Children in the city of Pittsburgh become the guards' ‘children’ and they love them and worry about them no less than if they were their own.” | 13/1/2021 16:05:21 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Wednesday, January 13, 2021 | Interview with Abby MackeyTime: 2 p.m. | 13/1/2021 09:19:14 |
| Statement by Mayor William Peduto on Passing of Joanne Rogers | PITTSBURGH, PA (January 14, 2021) Mayor William Peduto released the following statement today on the death of Joanne Rogers:"Through her grace, humor and down-to-earth demeanor Joanne Rogers personified what we love about the City of Pittsburgh. As the partner of Fred Rogers for a half-century she helped champion his good works to a global audience, and remained committed to his vision and to this city after his passing. She was always there when we needed her. I and countless others, from every walk of life, were humbled to call her a friend." | 14/1/2021 17:40:32 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Thursday, January 14, 2021 | Speaking to GBBN Environmental Justice Symposium on Marshall Plan for Middle AmericaTime: 4 p,m. | 14/1/2021 08:41:14 |
| Wall Work Begins on Henderson Street in Central Northside | The City of Pittsburgh’s Department of Mobility and Infrastructure (DOMI) is pleased to announce the commencement of construction of the Henderson Street wall following months of engineering design. The $346,000 project will remediate an ongoing sidewalk issue that occurred in 2018.Henderson Street construction began this week and will last approximately three months.Henderson Street will have alternating traffic through the work zone. Stop signs on each end of the work zone will control the alternating traffic. Fountain Street will be closed between Shockoe Way and Henderson Street. Henderson Street will be restricted to an 11' lane east of the Fountain Street intersection.Thank You for your cooperation during this time and we hope there will be only minor inconveniences. If you have any questions regarding this closure, please contact the City’s Response Center by dialing 311 or 412-255-2621. | 15/1/2021 15:13:21 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Friday, January 15, 2021 | No public events scheduled | 15/1/2021 08:20:45 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Monday, January 18, 2021 | Martin Luther King Jr. DayNo public events scheduled | 18/1/2021 09:55:25 |
| Court Upholds Peduto Campaign Finance Law | PITTSBURGH, PA (January 19, 2021) A Common Pleas judge today ruled in favor of the campaign finance law written by then-Councilman William Peduto and implemented by the City of Pittsburgh Ethics Hearing Board. The order issued by Judge Joseph James says the provisions and campaign finance regulations in the Pittsburgh campaign law are legal, as they follow similar regulations adopted by Philadelphia under its Home Rule powers that were upheld by the state Supreme Court. The judge’s order was in response to a suit filed by former Councilwoman Darlene Harris in 2019 saying the Pittsburgh legislation was preempted by state law and could not be enforced. As a councilman Peduto was the main author of the good government bill in 2010. “In a time when campaign finance rules and our ability to track political influence on elected officials are being gutted through decisions like Citizens United this is a major victory,” Mayor Peduto said. “It’s a win for transparency, for common-sense oversight of campaign spending, and most importantly for City of Pittsburgh voters. We are pleased with the Court repeatedly upholding these reasonable regulations, and for holding candidates accountable for their contributions and spending,” Mayor Peduto said. A copy of today’s order is available here. | 19/1/2021 16:45:32 |
| City of Pittsburgh Joins National Memorial to Lives Lost to COVID-19 | PITTSBURGH, PA (January 19, 2021) The City of Pittsburgh will be participating in the national Memorial to Lives Lost to COVID-19 this evening by illuminating the City-County Building. The memorial will take place in Washington D.C. at 5:30 p.m. Eastern Standard Time, and continue at 5:30 p.m. local time in cities and towns across the country. The memorial will feature the lighting of the Lincoln Memorial Reflecting Pool, and the illumination of buildings and ringing of church bells in a national moment of unity and remembrance. The City-County Building will be illuminated in amber, and other government and private buildings in Downtown Pittsburgh will also be participating. The memorial is part of the inauguration of President-elect Joe Biden and Vice President-elect Kamala Harris. “While tomorrow’s inauguration marks an opportunity for healing across our country, it is important to remember how far we have to go in our fight against the COVID-19 pandemic, and how we owe it to all those who lost their lives to work together to defeat it,” Mayor William Peduto said. | 19/1/2021 09:50:54 |
| Peduto Administration Proposes Zoning Changes to Reduce Sidewalk Curb Cuts | PITTSBURGH, PA (January 19, 2021) Mayor William Peduto’s administration introduced legislation to Pittsburgh City Council today that would reduce the use of sidewalk curb cuts by requiring side or rear access to parking at rowhouses. Last year the Department of City Planning introduced a zoning amendment that eliminated parking requirements for new rowhouses, which was leading to a proliferation of curb cuts and first-floor garages that created hazardous conditions for pedestrians and added to the cost of housing.  Today’s legislation takes those changes a step further by requiring developers to provide parking off of alleys or side streets whenever possible. If that access is unavailable, access to parking can be provided on the street using shared driveways.  “This change further discourages breaks in the sidewalks in our rowhouse neighborhoods, better ensuring pedestrian safety by creating fewer points where pedestrians and cars intersect, and ensuring that less on-street parking will be privatized for driveways along streets in these neighborhoods,” Planning Director Andrew Dash said. The legislation says in part: WHEREAS, these proposed changes to the Zoning Code will reduce the number of curb cuts along neighborhood sidewalks, improve safety for pedestrians, individuals with disabilities, and other users of our streets and sidewalks, limit the removal of on-street parking spaces, and maintain the historic character of our neighborhoods.The legislation would have particular impact on neighborhoods such as Lawrenceville. "Driveway curb cuts on our rowhouse blocks can be a serious impediment to walkability, accessibility, affordability, and the quality of our public realm. We appreciate Mayor Peduto's leadership in ensuring that future development protects the qualities that make our rowhouse neighborhoods great places to live," said Dave Breingan, executive director of Lawrenceville United. The legislation is set to be referred to the Planning Commission when it is up for discussion at Council’s Standing Committees meeting on Wednesday, January 27th. It will then be sent back to Council with a positive or negative recommendation. The full text of the zoning change is available here. | 19/1/2021 11:01:29 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Tuesday, January 19, 2021 | No public events scheduled | 19/1/2021 09:02:53 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Wednesday, January 20, 2021 | Speaking on "Bridging the Past and the Future: The Role of Universities in Sustainable, Just, and Inclusive Cities" panel with University of Pittsburgh and Newcastle UniversityTime: 2 p.m. | 20/1/2021 09:15:56 |
| Mayor Peduto Joins Bipartisan Call for Pandemic and Local Government Relief | PITTSBURGH, PA (January 20, 2021) Mayor William Peduto has joined a bipartisan coalition of more than 280 mayors nationwide calling on Congress to take action on pandemic and local government relief measures.The local leaders, in conjunction with the U.S. Conference of Mayors, wrote Congressional leaders to urge support of President Biden’s new plan to end the pandemic and save the American economy by providing direct fiscal relief to all cities— large, medium, and small—and boosting support for America’s vaccination program.As the coronavirus pandemic continues to ravage communities and cause economic suffering, the President has put forward a comprehensive package of relief measures that includes $350 billion in direct aid to state and local governments. The letter from 284 mayors, available in full here, urges Congress to support the measures.It says in part:"American cities and our essential workers have been serving at the frontlines of the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic for nearly a year. We have been charged with executing herculean public health efforts and an unprecedented emergency response. Despite immense fiscal pressure, your local government partners oversaw those efforts, while trying to maintain essential services and increase our internal capacity to provide support for residents and businesses who have been crippled by a tanking economy.And yet, as the economic engines of our country, local governments will be relied upon to lead the longterm economic recovery our nation so desperately needs, even as, with few exceptions, cities have been largely left without direct federal assistance. The lack of adequate support has resulted in budget cuts, service reductions, and job losses. Sadly, nearly one million local government jobs have already been lost during the pandemic. Our essential workers deserve federal relief like any other sector." | 20/1/2021 10:58:41 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Thursday, January 21, 2021 | No public events scheduled | 21/1/2021 08:50:47 |
| Statement by Mayor William Peduto on White House Executive Orders | PITTSBURGH, PA (January 21, 2021) Mayor William Peduto released the following statement on the Executive Orders signed by President Joseph Biden on the COVID-19 pandemic, climate, equity, and the economy: “The 17 orders signed by President Biden yesterday and the important governing priorities set with Vice President Kamala Harris will guide the United States back onto its rightful leadership course for Americans and the rest of the world.  All of these actions will benefit the residents of Pittsburgh, and mirror longtime efforts by my administration to ensure equity, opportunity and safety for all. Rejoining the Paris Climate Accords has a special import for our city given our worldwide leadership role in battling climate change, which has been remained unwavering despite the misguided efforts by former President Trump and his allies to label us otherwise. Recommitting to the Accords shows our country’s resolve to face twin challenges of our time — climate change and economic injustice — and reinforces the belief that we can solve the problems confronting us by working together and fostering innovation. All of the principles being followed by the Biden-Harris administration — from promoting immigration to fostering equity to protecting those facing economic woe — are priorities of Pittsburgh as well. Cities like ours never abandoned our commitments to save our planet and our people. Instead we doubled down, and today we remain ready to work with President Biden and Vice President Harris to create jobs, rebuild our infrastructure and ensure a better environment for all.” A full list of White House orders and actions is available here. | 21/1/2021 11:29:28 |
| Pittsburgh Joins Legal Fight Against Trump Cuts to Emissions Standards | PITTSBURGH, PA (January 21, 2021) The City of Pittsburgh is continuing its legal fight against Trump Administration Environmental Protection Agency moves to roll back vehicle emissions standards. The City is joining the National League of Cities, U.S. Conference of Mayors, the Local Government Coalition and 14 other municipalities and counties in an amicus brief filed with the DC Circuit of the U.S. Court of Appeals seeking to block EPA rules that they argue will hurt efforts to fight air pollution. The brief references efforts by Pittsburgh to address pollution in its Climate Action Plan and criticizes the EPA for failing to perform proper environmental justice analysis, which would show disparate impacts of the rules upon minority and/or low-income populations.   “Now is not the time to be rolling back pollution and air quality standards, especially when President Biden has ordered the United States re-join the Paris Climate Accords,” Mayor William Peduto said. “Pittsburgh and other cities are already acting to significantly reduce emissions, knowing that the costs of inaction will only get worse in the near future.” The amicus brief’s filing coincides with President Biden’s first set of environmental and climate executive orders and a directive from the Biden-Harris administration’s incoming EPA Administrator to revoke the Trump Administration’s Safer Affordable Fuel-Efficient (SAFE) Vehicles Rule, which rolled back required fuel efficiency improvements for new cars and light-duty trucks. The Local Government Coalition represents more than 10 million U.S. residents. Those signing onto today’s brief (in addition to Pittsburgh) include: Annapolis, Maryland; Boulder County, Colorado; Glen Rock, New Jersey; Harris County, Texas; Houston, Texas; Minneapolis, Minnesota; Providence, Rhode Island; Saint Paul, Minnesota; Salt Lake City, Utah; Santa Fe, New Mexico; and the Mayors of Durham, North Carolina; Fayetteville, Arkansas; Las Cruces, New Mexico; and Phoenix, Arizona. The brief mentions: - Pittsburgh's participation in the Local Government Coalition "first responders to climate change," working to reduce risks from transportation pollution. - Pittsburgh's 2017 Climate Action Plan and efforts to reduce emissions 20% by 2023, 50% by 2030, and 80% by 2050, as compared to 2003 levels. - Pittsburgh's calculation that transportation accounts for approximately 18% of greenhouse gas emissions. - Pittsburgh data showing high levels of asthma and exposure to unhealthy levels of particulate matter as a rationale for action.The full amicus brief is available here. | 21/1/2021 13:17:32 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Friday, January 22, 2021 | Democratic Mayors Annual MeetingTime: 11 a.m.U.S. Conference of Mayors Winter MeetingTime: 3:30 p.m. | 22/1/2021 08:37:36 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Monday, January 25, 2021 | Interview with NewsweekTime: 11 a.m.Interview with Mark Belko/Post-GazetteTime: 1 p.m. | 25/1/2021 08:56:15 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Tuesday, December 26, 2021 | NationSwell Panel on Marshall Plan for Middle America with Dayton Mayor Nan Whaley and Youngstown Mayor Tito BrownTime: 2 p.m.US Conference of Mayors Virtual Audience with His Holiness the Dalai LamaTime: 10 p.m. | 26/1/2021 09:08:59 |
| Mayor Peduto and City Council Approve Resolution Condemning Domestic Terror and Attack on U.S. Capitol | PITTSBURGH, PA (January 26, 2021) Mayor William Peduto and all members of Pittsburgh City Council today approved a resolution in conjunction with the Anti-Defamation League condemning the insurrection against the U.S. Capitol on January 6 and all domestic terror actions in the country. The resolution calls on all residents to reject extremism and disinformation, and to uphold democratic values, particularly in response to hate crimes such as the 2018 shooting at the Tree of Life Synagogue in Squirrel Hill, which was the deadliest anti-Semitic attack in American history. City Council members Corey O’Connor and Erika Strassburger, who represent Squirrel Hill, were the prime sponsors of the resolution with Mayor Peduto. The resolution says in part: “the Mayor and the Council of City of Pittsburgh are hereby committed to countering hate, extremism, misinformation, and disinformation through engagement with community leaders, governmental transparency, and public information-sharing regarding efforts to fight extremism, and through the investigation and prosecution of those who commit criminal acts in a manner that is consistent with civil liberties protections;  and . . . the Mayor and Council of the City of Pittsburgh do hereby urge Pittsburgh’s residents, institutions, and corporations to join us in adopting anti-extremist values, condemning and rejecting misinformation, disinformation, hate, and extremism in all forms, and calling attention to these harms to keep us all safe.” | 26/1/2021 10:14:50 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Wednesday, January 27, 2021 | Podcast Interview with CB BhattacharyaTime: 12:30 p.m.Interview with PBS NewsHourTime: 5:30 p.m. | 27/1/2021 08:48:23 |
| Pittsburgh Police Giving Recruits Cutting-Edge New Training on Homelessness | PITTSBURGH, PA (January 27, 2020) Under changes implemented by the Peduto Administration, Pittsburgh police recruits are receiving unique training to understand the experiences of residents who are homeless, the availability of services, and the impact of public safety involvement on displaced people, through the “Homelessness Academy” program at the police training academy. The program is being implemented by the Pittsburgh Bureau of Police in conjunction with the Office of Community Health &amp; Safety in Mayor William Peduto’s office, and the Department of Public Safety’s Office of Community Services and Violence Prevention.  The programs are part of Mayor Peduto’s efforts to give front-line workers more support when interacting with residents in desperate need of social services, and a reassessment generally of the City’s relations with displaced people.  For many police, the first time in their lives that they ever come into contact with a homeless resident is when they start on the job as a police officer. To ease that transition the Homelessness Academy gives recruits background on complexities that people experience living outside,  trauma, reasons why people do not stay in shelters, and how polices can help by engaging responsive supportive services. After the initial Homelessness Academy trainings recruits were surveyed for their reactions: 28% reported they had never had a conversation with someone experiencing homelessness before, and 71% said the training gave them a better familiarity with the issue. Through the program recruits hear first-hand from a community advocate who experienced homelessness, learn from an Allegheny Health Network official on the unique challenges facing residents experiencing homelessness, and review the resources police can deploy to assist people. The academy — borne out of collaborative efforts with the Homeless Outreach Coordination Committee and Resource Office — is a joint initiative with OCHS, which Mayor Peduto launched last summer to oversee social and public health services supporting community members and first responders who regularly interface with residents needing assistance and harm reduction support.  It is also a result of the City’s partnership with AHN’s Center for Inclusion Health to provide street outreach community-based teams to help with service delivery to residents with unmet needs. “This is a continuation of Police’s years-long focus on building bridges with all communities in Pittsburgh,” Public Safety Director Wendell Hissrich said. “Our goal is to have the best police bureau in the country, with officers who receive training that is second to none. I applaud this multi-agency cooperation the initiative shown by the Police leadership and the Academy in providing this crucial training.”   Police training in Pennsylvania is regulated by the Municipal Police Officers’ Education and Training Commission (MPOETC). Law enforcement agencies are allowed to offer additional training beyond what MPOETC requires, which includes programs like the Homelessness Academy, which is tailored to Pittsburgh’s unique issues. “This program better prepares recruits to look at social issues with a guardian mindset. It opens their eyes to the reality and the humanity of the situation and provides them with a better understanding of the key issues related to homelessness,” Police Chief Scott Schubert said.  The training program is overseen by Sgt. Colleen Bristow, who has worked to enhance the MPOETC to better prepare officers for community needs, and features remarks by community advocate and leader Kelly Ferri and AHN homeless and urban poverty director Dan Palka, as well as by police leaders who talk to recruits about their experiences and how they build empathy for those living on the street.  “Community members and people working directly in the community are our experts. It is the responsibility of the Office of Community Health &amp; Safety to support residents and first responders by ensuring that services are available, responsive, and low barrier,” OCHS Manager Laura Drogowski said. “Police and EMS are the last safety net – with this training, we work to help officers understand that treating people with dignity, respect, and support can change their experiences.” | 27/1/2021 13:12:26 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Thursday, January 28, 2021 | Grantmakers of Western PA Annual Funders BriefingTime: Noon | 28/1/2021 08:35:24 |
| City of Pittsburgh Right-of-Way Manual Update | PITTSBURGH, PA (January 29, 2021) The City of Pittsburgh’s Department of Mobility and Infrastructure (DOMI) is in the final stages of certifying and publishing an update to the Right-of-Way Procedures Manual. Once finalized, the 2021 update will supersede the current Right of Way Procedures Manual, dated June 1, 2017. The Right-of-Way Manual applies to anyone working in, encroaching into, or occupying the public right-of-way.The primary objectives of the Right-of-Way Procedures Manual are to:- Ensure safety for all users of the public right-of-way;- Detail the DOMI permit structure, requirements, procedures, standards, and methods and outline of permittee responsibilities; and- Communicate established specifications, standards, fees, and time constraints for right-of-way activities.The definition of the public right-of-way (per Code) is the surface and space above and below any real property in which the City has an interest in law or equity, including, but not limited to, any public street, boulevard, road, highway, freeway, lane, alley, court, sidewalk, parkway, swale, river, tunnel, viaduct, bridge, park, or any other place, area, or real property, other than real property owned in fee by the City.The 2021 update includes changes and clarifications to requirements that must be followed for work performed in the public right-of-way and references new procedures following the launch of OneStopPGH and DOMI’s Rules and Regulations Guiding Permits, Licenses, and Plan Reviews.DOMI is providing the 2021 draft Right-of-Way Procedures Manual to the public for inquiry at https://pittsburghpa.gov/domi/row-manual. Questions and input can be submitted in writing here through February 19, 2021. Additionally, virtual meetings are planned for Monday, February 8 and Tuesday, February 16, for a presentation of some of the major proposed changes and a chance for input. More information on the inquiry meetings and links to attend are provided on the web page.After the window is closed and input is considered, the Manual will be finalized, and published. A compendium of changes between the draft and final documents will be made available online. | 29/1/2021 16:12:12 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Friday, January 29, 2021 | Call with Congressman Mike Doyle on Marshall Plan for Middle AmericaTime: NoonInterview with American Society of Civil EngineersTime: 3 p.m.Speaking to Pittsburgh Civic HackathonTime: 6 p.m. | 29/1/2021 08:29:13 |
| Statement by Mayor William Peduto on Passing of Patricia Rooney | PITTSBURGH, PA (January 30, 2021) Mayor William Peduto issued the following statement on the passing of Patricia Rooney, wife of late Ambassador Daniel M. Rooney:"There is much to celebrate Patricia Rooney for, in her service to our nation and our beloved city. In her native North Side, though, she will always be remembered as one of the neighborhood's greatest champions." | 30/1/2021 23:05:53 |
| City Prepares for Expected Snow and Ice Storm | PITTSBURGH, PA (January 30, 2021) With significant snowfall predicted for Sunday and Monday, the City of Pittsburgh Department of Public Works is preparing for road salt treatments and plowing citywide. Forecasts are for snow to fall from approximately 1 a.m. Sunday through 11 p.m. Monday, with the heaviest accumulation expected Sunday afternoon. Crews will begin treating streets with blue-tinted magnesium chloride salt tonight and will continue treating and plowing throughout the storm. DPW plans to have over 50 trucks on the 10 p.m. to 10 a.m. shift tonight, salting roads in advance of the storm. Sunday daylight crews will continue work from 10 a.m. to 10 p.m, when over 60 trucks will be available for salting and plowing. Additionally, crews will be out salting and shoveling City steps, sidewalks, and bridges. Crews will be in place around the clock salting and plowing until the storm has passed through the area. The City Snow Plow Tracker App will be activated tonight at 10 p.m. and throughout the storm.Slippery road conditions should be expected on Sunday, as crews work through their routes. Motorists are advised to use caution when driving, especially on steep roads and narrow streets. | 30/1/2021 13:34:14 |
| Investigation Continues on DPW Truck Accident in South Side Slopes | PITTSBURGH, PA (February 1, 2021) A City of Pittsburgh Department of Public Works truck plowing and salting city streets went over a hillside in the South Side Slopes this morning, but the driver was uninjured.The accident was reported at 9:04 a.m. on Mt. Oliver Street, and units from the Emergency Medical Services and Police bureaus responded. The matter remains under investigation. | 1/2/2021 11:54:44 |
| Peduto Administration Legislation Makes Juneteenth a City Holiday | PITTSBURGH, PA (February 1, 2021) Mayor William Peduto is introducing a bill to City Council following up on his pledge to make Juneteenth an official City holiday. The Mayor announced in August at a Black Voting Rights Forum at St. Benedict the Moor Church in the Lower Hill District that “Juneteenth reminds us of the rich history of Black Pittsburgh and celebrates those who worked hard so that Black people’s voices could be heard through voting.”    “Throughout history, many have tried to silence Black voices. We have arrived in a critical time where they are finally getting the attention that they deserve – and they are being heard. Many of us, particularly privileged white men, have not always listened as much as we should have. The time is now to make that change permanent, and formally set aside this holiday to celebrate Black voices.” Since the June 19th holiday falls this year on a Saturday, it is set to be celebrated on Friday, June 18th.  The legislation from the Department of Human Resources and Civil Service is set to be introduced tomorrow and discussed at Council’s Standing Committees meeting on February 10. | 1/2/2021 10:36:48 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Monday, February 1, 2021 | CommuniTEA Grand OpeningTime: 9 a.m.Location: 1836 Centre Ave., Hill District | 1/2/2021 08:40:45 |
| Mayor Peduto Joins Hill District Community in Opening CommuniTEA Cafe | PITTSBURGH, PA (February 1, 2021) Mayor William Peduto was pleased to join Hill District leaders and community members today for the official ribbon-cutting of the CommuniTEA Café, an initiative of the Center that CARES, the Urban Redevelopment Authority of Pittsburgh, and the Mayor’s Avenues of Hope program. The café in Centre Heldman plaza seeks to match the expertise of Hill District professionals with a learning lab for local youth. The coffee house will also offer special events and initiatives that will connect the community such as community conversations, book clubs, art displays, and jazz events. The initiative is in line with the Avenues of Hope program from the Mayor and the URA, which seeks to reprioritize business district investments in diverse city neighborhoods. “This project demonstrates a what can happen when government and the community have an honest dialogue and work together, and is the core mission of Avenues of Hope,” Mayor Peduto said. “We are working to realize the community's vision by supporting and investing in local entrepreneurs and neighborhood-based economic development initiatives.” The Mayor was joined at the ribbon-cutting ceremony by Councilman R. Daniel Lavelle, Center that CARES CEO the Rev. Glenn G. Grayson, URA officials and many others. | 1/2/2021 11:44:25 |
| City and County to Establish $36 Million COVID-19 Emergency Rental Assistance Program | PITTSBURGH, PA (February 2, 2021) A proposal to establish an Emergency Rental Assistance Program to assist those impacted financially from the COVID-19 crisis was introduced to Pittsburgh City Council today. The City of Pittsburgh and Allegheny County are partnering with Action Housing and Dollar Energy to establish the emergency program using federal funds in the Consolidated Appropriations Act, which was signed into law on December 27. The County received $27 million and the City $8.9 million in U.S. Treasury grants under the Act, for assisting households having trouble paying rent and utilities due to the pandemic. “In 2020, we were able to help many in our community, but also know that despite our efforts, massive need still exists,” said County Executive Rich Fitzgerald. “This partnership with the City of Pittsburgh and ACTION will allow us to meet this challenge with a larger pool of funds to help those in need.” Allegheny County successfully partnered with ACTION Housing in 2020 to provide over $14 million in rental relief to 3,600 households in the county. The existing partnership and infrastructure along with learned lessons from the first program will lead to a smoother, more expedient process for applicants.  The City and County are working quickly to establish the local rental assistance program, since under the federal law at least 65% of the grant funds must be expended by September 30 of this year. The Peduto Administration is introducing the City’s grant funding to City Council today and asking for an expedited Council vote by next week. “People all around the Pittsburgh region continue to be hurt by COVID-19 in ways that go far beyond the health catastrophe of the pandemic, as they are stuck at home contending with employment uncertainty, educational worries and emotional distress. But if that home itself is in danger, people could lose all hope,” Mayor William Peduto said. Under federal regulations grant funding can be used for rent, rental arrears, utilities, utility arrears, and other housing expenses resulting from the pandemic for households meeting certain income criteria. The assistance can last up to 12 months plus an additional three months, if necessary, to ensure housing stability. Although more details are forthcoming from the federal government that are needed to launch the program, prospective applicants can express interest and sign up to receive program updates at https://covidrentrelief.alleghenycounty.us/. Additional details about the federal grants are available here. Contacts:Amie M. DownsDirector of CommunicationsCounty of Allegheny412.350.3711412.327.3700 cellAmie.Downs@AlleghenyCounty.usTimothy McNultyCommunications DirectorCity of Pittsburgh412.660.1999timothy.mcnulty@pittsburghpa.gov | 2/2/2021 10:50:34 |
| City to Partner with FUSE Corps on Police-Community Relations, Workforce Development and Adult Diversion Programs | PITTSBURGH, PA (February 2, 2021) The Peduto Administration is partnering with the nonprofit FUSE Corps to host three researchers to work on community-police relations, job opportunities for students, and creating an adult diversion program to help keep residents from entering the criminal justice system. The nonprofit support will build off initiatives already being implemented by the Office of Community Services and Violence Prevention within the Department of Public Safety and the Community Task Force on Police Reform.FUSE offers the services from its fellows for 12 months, free of charge. Since 2002 the nonprofit has partnered with more than 100 cities nationwide to address urban issues and help cities thrive. Fuse has helped Pittsburgh before with issues such as improving public housing and improving city buildings. The proposed new projects are: “Creating Pathways to High-Paying Careers for Pittsburgh’s Students,” “Strengthening Relationships Between Police and the Pittsburgh Community,” and "Launching Diversion Initiatives to Reduce Racial Disparities in Incarceration.” A proposed agreement to accept the FUSE services will be introduced to City Council today. Through the career project, the FUSE executive fellow will start with a listening tour “connecting with leadership at Pittsburgh Public Schools and Partner4Work, and then branching out to include the region’s largest employers, students and other key stakeholders. At the end of the listening tour, the Executive Fellow will have developed recommendations for promising pathways (e.g. Emergency Medical Services, etc.) that have the most potential to secure post-program agreements. These pathways will most likely have existing strong training options and shortages of qualified job candidates.” The project will build upon successes at the Public Safety Academy at Westinghouse High School, which trains Pittsburgh Public Schools students for future careers as firefighters, paramedics and police. Another fellow will focus on possibly creating a police athletic league, as part of ongoing efforts by the new Office of Community Services and Violence Prevention. The project proposal says “At the onset, the Executive Fellow will look nationally at other police athletic leagues and develop recommendations and pilot programs that build on lessons learned from other promising initiatives. The Executive Fellow will also work side-by-side with community connectors, including the Bureau’s Community Resource Officers and Public Safety Councils to identify opportunities and assets that inform programming for each zone within the City of Pittsburgh.” Finally, a FUSE fellow will work on creating an adult diversion program to provide residents with resources to keep them from entering the criminal justice system. The program will build upon successful efforts with the Foundation of HOPE to establish the HOPE Diversion Program targeted at youth ages 12-26 who commit low-level crime. Under the program the FUSE fellow “will map out a one-year, short-term plan for implementing the program in at least two police zones. The Executive Fellow will build internal infrastructure for the program, including necessary technology and training for officers and diversion case managers; establishing key communication pathways between officers, case managers, the District Attorney, and Magisterial District Judges; and formalizing processes for identifying those eligible for the program – incentivizing the program and building trust with the community. This plan will reflect recommendations for diversion efforts made by the Community Task Force on Police Reform, including developing zone-specific processes and programming. The Executive Fellow will also formalize a structure for coordinating and facilitating meetings across stakeholders to ensure consistent communication.” | 2/2/2021 09:07:12 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Tuesday, February 2, 2021 | No public events scheduled | 2/2/2021 08:26:53 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Wednesday, February 3, 2021 | No public events scheduled | 3/2/2021 08:48:42 |
| City to Host Health Care Education Sessions | PITTSBURGH, PA (February 3, 2021) The Office of Mayor William Peduto and Pennie, the Pennsylvania Health Insurance Exchange, are hosting two educational sessions for residents to learn how to utilize the portal that replaced healthcare.gov in Pennsylvania. Over 27,000 people in Pittsburgh are uninsured and many others are under-insured. During this difficult time, many people may experience employment and insurance changes. Pennie can help connect residents to financial assistance, programs, and affordable and reliable insurance plans. The sessions will be held: - February 10, 2021 at 2:00 p.m. - February 11, 2021 at 10:00 a.m. Residents can register for one of two virtual education sessions at https://pittsburghpa.gov/office-of-equity/Sessions will be recorded and posted on City Channel YouTube for future viewing. | 3/2/2021 12:56:23 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Thursday, February 4, 2021 | No public events scheduled | 4/2/2021 08:31:57 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Friday, February 5, 2021 | Ribbon-Cutting for Affordable Homes in FineviewTime: 3 p.m.Location: 21 Lanark Street, Fineview | 5/2/2021 08:35:22 |
| Office of Community Health and Safety Selected for National League of Cities Community Health Cohort | PITTSBURGH, PA (February 5, 2021) The City of Pittsburgh’s Office of Community Health and Safety (OCHS), in partnership with Allegheny Health Network’s Center for Inclusion Health, has been selected to join the National League of Cities’ (NLC) Cities of Opportunity for Cities and Health Systems Community of Practice cohort. The cohort provides an in-depth learning network led by NLC in partnership with the Center to Advance Community Health &amp; Equity (CACHE) to foster and strengthen collaboration between municipal governments, health systems stakeholders and community partners to address root causes of poor health and advance equity in Pittsburgh.  “We’d like to thank NLC and Cities of Opportunity for selecting the City of Pittsburgh for this cohort,” said Mayor William Peduto. “As a new city office, OCHS has the opportunity to bring a fresh perspective to the way the City and its health system partners deliver services and create real, sustainable change for the health and safety of our communities. We look forward to creating a model for Pittsburgh and the country for how we can work with our world-class health systems to leverage partnerships, work together, listen to the community and design our systems to respond to the root causes and real needs of residents with resources that help in both the immediate and long term.” The Cities of Opportunity initiative helps local leaders address holistic, interconnected factors that affect residents’ health and safety and build resiliency in all communities. The City of Pittsburgh was among 22 municipalities from across the country selected to participate in Cities of Opportunity. Over the next several months, Pittsburgh will be working with nine other local governments specifically in the Cities and Health Systems Community of Practice cohort to assess and address structural, economic, policy and systemic barriers to health equity for marginalized communities. Pittsburgh was additionally selected within the cohort as one of two cities to receive additional support on this community health and safety initiative from the Public Health Institute. The City of Pittsburgh was selected for the initiative due to the City’s demonstrated commitment to advancing programs, policies and practices that advance health equity in our community. Additionally, the City has a proven track record of bringing together various multi-sector stakeholders committed to improving the health and well-being of all Pittsburgh residents.  OCHS plans to use this opportunity to work with cohort cities to grow the partnership model with the Allegheny Health Network(AHN) Program for Homeless and Urban Poverty Medicine. The model will identify opportunities for cities and health systems to improve health equity and community outcomes. The intention is to create a replicable partnership model to expand the initiative with other valuable health stakeholders citywide. "The pandemic has exacerbated health and safety inequities in our communities, particularly related to the social determinants of health, trust in systems, accessibility of care, systemic racism and communication within systems and with the community,” said OCHS Manager Laura Drogowski. “We hope to learn from national leaders to be accountable and build a community-driven continuum of support. We believe in the critical mission and foundational work of the AHN Center for Inclusion Health and will focus on the expertise that is already in our community to continue to build our partnerships and better support residents.” “As part of our ongoing partnership with the City of Pittsburgh to create innovative street outreach models that help mitigate risks posed by the compounding public health crises of homelessness, Allegheny Health Network is extremely pleased and honored to participate in this cohort. We look forward to demonstrating how local governments and health systems can work together to achieve health equity for vulnerable and marginalized populations,” said Dan Palka, Administrative Director, AHN Program for Homeless and Urban Poverty Medicine. “The root causes of poor health, or the factors influencing how well we live and how long we live, lead to distinct inequities resulting in significant differences in the quality and length of life among residents across the country,” said Sue Polis, Director of Health and Wellness at the National League of Cities. “The National League of Cities is proud to work with the City of Pittsburgh in its efforts to turn this unprecedented time and its myriad of challenges into an opportunity to build a new, bright and more equitable future for all Pittsburgh residents.”  The Cities of Opportunity Community of Practice began in January 2021 and will run through July 2021. The work is generously supported by the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation. | 5/2/2021 10:26:54 |
| Mayor Peduto Asks Governor Wolf to Immediately Vaccinate School Teachers | PITTSBURGH, PA (February 8, 2021) Mayor William Peduto issued a letter to Governor Tom Wolf today asking that the state Department of Health prioritize immunizations of teachers to expedite the safe return of all students to in-person schooling, and offered the City’s assistance with vaccinations. The COVID-19 pandemic, the Mayor wrote, “has shined a light on the inequities of our society, and unfortunately, remote learning has exacerbated academic disparities for students and families of color. Promoting vaccines for teachers would help to speed up the safe return to school, would ensure that all students receive the focused academic support that they need to succeed, and would be aligned with your administration’s commitment to an equitable response to the pandemic.” City recreation and senior centers are closed due to the pandemic so the Mayor offered them as vaccine distribution centers for teachers and others, and offered City staff to assist in working with local hospital and public safety officials. The letter reads in full: Dear Governor Wolf, As our Commonwealth recovers from the devastating COVID-19 pandemic, I am writing to encourage you to take the necessary steps to ensure that teachers can be vaccinated immediately. This measure would help to create a safer environment for students, many of whom have fallen behind academically while attempting to shift to at-home learning, expedite the safe reopening of schools, and alleviate the concerns of teachers who are apprehensive about returning to unsafe conditions. The City of Pittsburgh stands ready to assist the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania and other partners with the distribution of vaccines to educators in our community.   The change to virtual learning has greatly impacted students and families, forcing them to scramble to secure the child care options, technology, and other supports needed to learn at home. This crisis has shined a light on the inequities of our society, and unfortunately, remote learning has exacerbated academic disparities for students and families of color. Promoting vaccines for teachers would help to speed up the safe return to school, would ensure that all students receive the focused academic support that they need to succeed, and would be aligned with your administration’s commitment to an equitable response to the pandemic.  Even with school reopening guidelines from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, prioritizing access to the vaccine for educators remains a critical tool to ensure that teachers feel genuinely safe in the classroom, students can learn successfully, and families feel comfortable returning their children to in-person learning environments. Teachers are most effective when they feel comfortable, and providing teachers with rapid access to vaccines would create a healthier setting for them and the students who learn from them. If your administration is willing to expedite the distribution of vaccines to educators, the City of Pittsburgh can provide staff support as needed, coordinate with local hospitals and public safety professionals, and offer our neighborhood recreation and senior centers as community-based vaccine distribution sites.  Again, I encourage you to offer immediate access to vaccines for teachers. This action would promote the safe reopening of schools, reduce stress for parents and families, improve all students’ academic performance, and mitigate teachers’ apprehension about unsafe working conditions. The City is willing and able to assist your administration with this important endeavor. Thank you for your consideration and for your leadership throughout this global crisis. Sincerely, William Peduto Mayor of Pittsburgh | 8/2/2021 12:36:19 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Monday, February 8, 2021 | No public events scheduled | 8/2/2021 08:23:42 |
| Mayor Peduto Makes Appointments to City's First-Ever LGBTQIA+ Commission | PITTSBURGH, PA (February 8, 2021) Mayor William Peduto is making appointments to the City’s new LGBTQIA+ Commission. The Mayor created a LGBTQIA+ Advisory Council in 2016, and under legislation he introduced in June he replaced it with a permanent commission within City Code. The commission will advise City government on plans and policy recommendations to address challenges facing the LGBTQIA+ community.  The appointees will be introduced to Pittsburgh City Council tomorrow. They are: Kathi Boyle;  Denise DeSimone; Jam Hammond; William Hileman;  Sue Kerr; Councilman Bruce Kraus; Britton Mauk; Leonard Orbovich; Richard Parsakian; Dr. Christopher Robinson; Marcus Robinson; Sarah Rosso; Luca Salerno; Tiffini Simoneaux; Nekia Burton Tucker; the Reverend Deryck Tines; and Guillermo Velazquez. “This is a strong and impressive group, and will be extremely helpful in informing policies on LGBTQIA+ matters across City government,” Mayor Peduto said. The Mayor is also making appointments and reappointments to the Gender Equity Commission; the Shade Tree Commission; the Historic Review Commission; the Urban Redevelopment Authority; the Pittsburgh Land Bank; and the Art Commission. | 8/2/2021 11:25:15 |
| City Prepares for Snow Storm | PITTSBURGH, PA (February 8, 2021) With significant snowfall predicted for Monday night through Saturday, the City of Pittsburgh Department of Public Works is preparing for road salt treatments and plowing citywide. Forecasts are for snow to fall from approximately 11 pm. Monday through Sunday afternoon, with a brief respite from snow expected on Thursday. DPW plans to have over 45 trucks on the 6 p.m. to 6 a.m. shift tonight, salting roads in advance of the storm. Tuesday daylight crews will work from 6 a.m. to 6 p.m., when over 60 trucks will be available for salting and plowing. Additionally, crews will be out Tuesday morning, salting and shoveling City steps, sidewalks, and bridges. Crews are in place around the clock to perform salting and plowing until the storm has passed through the area. The City Snowplow Tracker App ( https://pittsburghpa.gov/weather/snow-plow-tracker) will be activated tonight at 11 p.m. and throughout the storm.Slippery road conditions should be expected on Tuesday morning, as crews work through treating their routes. Motorists are advised to use caution when driving, especially on steep roads and narrow streets. | 8/2/2021 16:19:34 |
| Statement by Mayor William Peduto on Passing of Former IAFF President Joseph King | PITTSBURGH, PA (February 9, 2021) Mayor William Peduto today released the following statement on the passing of former International Association of Fire Fighters Local 1 President Joseph King:"Joe King was a great battler on behalf of the men and women of the Pittsburgh Bureau of Fire. He gave everything he had to his union, his bureau, his country and his city.I have the utmost respect for him, and he leaves a lasting legacy of hard work on behalf of working people everywhere." | 9/2/2021 12:28:29 |
| Portion of East Carson and 11th Streets Remain Closed for Building Demolition | PITTSBURGH, PA (February 9, 2021) East Carson Street between 10th and 12th Streets and the first blocks of 11th Street off East Carson in both directions will remain closed until tomorrow for building demolition following a 4-alarm fire and building collapse yesterday. The Department of Permits, Licenses and Inspections condemned the unsafe structure and the remainder of the building will be demolished today. Demolition will begin this evening after the building's gas utility service lines located under East Carson Street are severed. Demolition and debris removal is expected to continue overnight. The Department of Mobility and Infrastructure has issued the following traffic detours throughout the closure: motorists may utilize South 10th Street to Muriel Street to South 13th Street or vice versa; trucks MUST use the alternative truck route on Arlington Avenue to South 18th Street or vice versa. | 9/2/2021 14:51:43 |
| Refuse Collection Delayed Due to Inclement Weather | PITTSBURGH, PA (February 9, 2021) The City of Pittsburgh Department of Public Works Environmental Services Bureau has canceled refuse and recycling collection today due to inclement weather.Workers will attempt to collect all delayed refuse tomorrow, but with winter weather expected to continue through the week residents should be prepared for their normal pickup to be delayed one day.Residents are reminded to please ensure refuse, recycling materials and sidewalks are cleared of snow to help Environmental Services access the materials. | 9/2/2021 11:18:01 |
| City Refuse Collection Delayed Due to Snow | PITTSBURGH, PA (February 9, 2021) The City of Pittsburgh Department of Public Works Environmental Services Bureau has canceled refuse and recycling collection today due to inclement weather.Workers will attempt to collect all delayed refuse tomorrow, but with winter weather expected to continue through the week residents should be prepared for their normal pickup to be delayed one day.Residents are reminded to please ensure refuse, recycling materials and sidewalks are cleared of snow to help Environmental Services access the materials. | 9/2/2021 11:08:54 |
| City, URA &amp; Bakery Square Development to Invest Millions in Affordable Housing and Workforce Development in Larimer | PITTSBURGH, PA (February 9, 2021) A funding partnership with Bakery Square to support affordable housing, workforce development and the history of Larimer has been approved by the East Liberty TRID board. It includes support for a $1 million Larimer workforce development center, a $1 million commitment to affordable housing on Mayflower Street, and an engineering and architectural pattern book to support the Larimer Master Plan. The partnership with Bakery Square developers Walnut Capital was approved Thursday by the East Liberty Transit Revitalization Investment District Revitalization Authority (ELTRIDRA) board.   “In 2014 Larimer Consensus Group was given the opportunity to improve two housing projects as the momentum was to build with rehabilitation, and many homeowners were able to rehab their homes,” Donna Jackson of Larimer Consensus Group said. “This partnership with Walnut Capital extended another opportunity for residents to build wealth throughout the community and receive job training to empower them to increase wealth within their families.” “This is how you help ensure opportunities for all,” Mayor William Peduto said. “I want to thank Larimer Consensus Group, Walnut Capital and ELTRIDRA for their work.” A $1 million grant from Walnut Capital will fund workforce development initiatives by the Larimer Consensus Group. The service provider will be Pittsburgh Community Services, Inc. (PCSI) and the Urban Redevelopment Authority of Pittsburgh will provide technical assistance and expertise. In a partnership between the URA and Walnut Capital $1 million will be committed to support a for-sale affordable housing initiative on currently-vacant land on Mayflower Street near Auburn Street. Affordable, new-construction, single-family homes will be constructed in a partnership with the Pittsburgh Housing Development Corporation, which will be sold to households at or below 80% Area Median Income. A $17,500 grant from Walnut Capital will fund the pattern book, which is a guide that reviews architectural patterns that are present within the Larimer neighborhood along with guidelines for building or renovating structures. The pattern book will highlight sustainable practices consistent with the Larimer Vision Plan. | 9/2/2021 10:02:23 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Tuesday, February 9, 2021 | No public events scheduled | 9/2/2021 09:06:39 |
| City and URA Advance Affordable Housing in North Side and Squirrel Hill | PITTSBURGH, PA (February 10, 2021) The Peduto Administration and the Urban Redevelopment Authority of Pittsburgh are set to approve 85 affordable housing units in the North Side and Squirrel Hill. The URA board is set to approve funding for 42 affordable housing units at Cal-Bride Place at California Avenue and Kirkbride Street, with the construction of a 30-unit apartment building and six duplexes.   The units will be affordable to tenants at various income levels: Five will be affordable at or below 30% Area Median Income (AMI), 20 at or below 50% AMI, and 17 at or below 60% AMI.  The total project cost is $15.6 million. Proposed URA funding includes a $450,000 Rental Gap Program loan and a $400,000 UDAG Program Income Fund loan.  Developers Northside Properties Residences IV expect to finish construction by the fall of 2022. Urban Strategies, Inc. will act as a service provider to Cal-Bride tenants., with services including orientation sessions for all new residents, specialized case management to build individualized roadmaps for personal goals and family-related aspirations, linked coordination to supportive services, financial literacy workshops, and employment and educational readiness workshops among other activities. In Squirrel Hill, approvals are expected for a mixed-use affordable housing building with 43 new apartments and 10,000 sq. ft. of commercial retail space at the Flats on Forward, the site of the former Squirrel Hill Theater. Of the 43 units, 25 percent will have a preference for individuals with disabilities. Five units will be reserved for households at or below 20% AMI, 17 will be available to households at or below 50%, and the remaining 21 units will be available for households at or below 60% AMI.  The URA board is set to increase its approval last year of a Rental Gap Program loan by $750,000 from $1,250,000 to $2,000,000. The proposed loan increase request is due to the site location and costs associated with reinforcing and repairing Maeburn Road. The board meets virtually tomorrow at 2 p.m. | 10/2/2021 09:50:16 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Wednesday, February 10, 2021 | Manchester Community Development CelebrationTime: 1 p.m.Location: Zoom or Facebook Live | 10/2/2021 08:42:51 |
| Mayor and Manchester Community Celebrate New and Upcoming Affordable Housing Developments | PITTSBURGH, PA (February 10, 2021) Mayor William Peduto joined the Manchester Citizens Corporation (MCC) and others today for a virtual celebration of completed and upcoming development projects in the historic North Side community. “Manchester is a model for the whole city of Pittsburgh in how you build communities through housing,” Mayor Peduto said. “You create opportunities for equity through homeownership, you incorporate historic preservation, you provide walkable amenities for neighbors of all ages, and you make for a special place that everyone can call home.” The Mayor was joined by community officials including state Rep. Jake Wheatley, City Councilman R. Daniel Lavelle, and the MCC’s LaShawn Burton-Faulk. "The community celebration was an opportunity for us to come together and recognize the great progress in our community, even during a trying year of national pandemic and discord. I want to thank all of our partners who’ve helped make these important and exciting projects possible. We look forward to continuing the work in Manchester to bring the community’s vision to life," Burton-Faulk said. The event served as a virtual groundbreaking for the new Manchester Rowhouse Renaissance Project, with nine (9) affordable for-sale housing opportunities on Rush, Lake, and Warlo Streets. These new housing opportunities are priced to be affordable at a variety of income levels, and includes significant public investment in the project, and in supporting potential buyers.  It was also a virtual ribbon cutting ceremony to celebrate the recent completion of the 1220-1222 Sheffield Street Project, a new multi-family rental housing project including eleven new market rate units in the heart of the community. The celebration also included remarks from Urban Redevelopment Authority of Pittsburgh executive director Greg Flisram. Since 2000 the URA has made $5.2 million in housing investments in the Manchester community. “Manchester is a historic neighborhood that’s experiencing rapid change. In a neighborhood largely of single-family homes, with a rising housing market, investment in affordable housing is more important than ever,” Flisram said. | 10/2/2021 15:01:41 |
| Mayor and Manchester Community Celebrate New and Upcoming Affordable Housing Developments | PITTSBURGH, PA (February 10, 2021) Mayor William Peduto joined the Manchester Citizens Corporation (MCC) and others today for a virtual celebration of completed and upcoming development projects in the historic North Side community. “Manchester is a model for the whole city of Pittsburgh in how you build communities through housing,” Mayor Peduto said. “You create opportunities for equity through homeownership, you incorporate historic preservation, you provide walkable amenities for neighbors of all ages, and you make for a special place that everyone can call home.” The Mayor was joined by community officials including state Rep. Jake Wheatley, City Councilman R. Daniel Lavelle, and the MCC’s LaShawn Burton-Faulk. "The community celebration was an opportunity for us to come together and recognize the great progress in our community, even during a trying year of national pandemic and discord. I want to thank all of our partners who’ve helped make these important and exciting projects possible. We look forward to continuing the work in Manchester to bring the community’s vision to life," Burton-Faulk said. The event served as a virtual groundbreaking for the new Manchester Rowhouse Renaissance Project, with nine (9) affordable for-sale housing opportunities on Rush, Lake, and Warlo Streets. These new housing opportunities are priced to be affordable at a variety of income levels, and includes significant public investment in the project, and in supporting potential buyers.  It was also a virtual ribbon cutting ceremony to celebrate the recent completion of the 1220-1222 Sheffield Street Project, a new multi-family rental housing project including eleven new market rate units in the heart of the community. The celebration also included remarks from Urban Redevelopment Authority of Pittsburgh executive director Greg Flisram. Since 2000 the URA has made $5.2 million in housing investments in the Manchester community. “Manchester is a historic neighborhood that’s experiencing rapid change. In a neighborhood largely of single-family homes, with a rising housing market, investment in affordable housing is more important than ever,” Flisram said. | 10/2/2021 15:01:26 |
| Real Estate Checks Being Processed Despite Delays | PITTSBURGH, PA (February 11, 2021) City residents seeking a 2% discount by paying their real estate taxes by February 10 will still have the discount applied, even if their payment checks have not yet cleared. The City is experiencing delays in mail delivery from the U.S. Postal Service and is implementing a new check scanning system. However the Department of Finance will still apply the 2% discount if payments have a post-mark date of February 10 or before.  For more information on real estate taxes see the Finance Department website. | 11/2/2021 12:21:32 |
| Civic Leadership Academy Applications Open for Spring 2021 Class | PITTSBURGH, PA (February 11, 2021) Applications are now open for the Mayor’s Spring 2021 Civic Leadership Academy (CLA). CLA is a free 11-week course where participants learn about city operations, services and resources from leaders of city departments, offices, bureaus and authorities.  The course encourages more informed, effective and inspired community and civic leadership by giving City residents an opportunity to understand and engage with their local government. The program is held twice per year and applications are open to individuals over age 18 who live in, or own and operate a business in, the City of Pittsburgh limits. The Spring 2021 session will be held virtually via Zoom every Wednesday, April 14th – June 23, 2021, from 6:00-8:30 PM. Applications are due March 10, 2021 at midnight.  Learn more about the Civic Leadership Academy at pittsburghpa.gov/oca/cla and apply at applycla.pittsburghpa.gov. Residents are encouraged to view recordings of the most recent sessions of virtual Civic Leadership Academy on YouTube.  To receive notification of future opportunities with the Civic Leadership Academy and other programs and news from the Office of Community Affairs and the City of Pittsburgh, sign up for the monthly community newsletter: newsletter.pittsburghpa.gov. Anyone who requires an accommodation for effective communication or a modification of policies or procedures to participate in this program should contact the City of Pittsburgh ADA Coordinator Hillary Roman at hillary.roman@pittsburghpa.gov or by calling 412-255-2102 int. 457. Please contact Leah Friedman at 412-255-4773 or leah.friedman@pittsburghpa.gov with questions. | 11/2/2021 10:28:30 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Thursday, February 11, 2021 | Opening Remarks at Pennie Health Care Education SessionTime: 10 a.m. | 11/2/2021 08:01:06 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Friday, February 12, 2021 | No public events scheduled | 12/2/2021 08:27:27 |
| City Prepares for Latest Snow and Ice Storm | PITTSBURGH, PA (February 14, 2021) With snowfall in excess of 8 inches predicted for early Monday morning through Tuesday morning, the City of Pittsburgh Department of Public Works is preparing for road salt treatments and plowing citywide. Residents with on-street parking are asked to park vehicles as closely as possible to the curb to allow for the best treatments of roadway travel lanes. Forecasts are for snow to fall from 3 a.m. Monday through 6 a.m. Tuesday morning. Public Works plans to have over 50 trucks starting at 10 p.m. Sunday night, salting roads in advance of the storm and plowing as the storm arrives. Monday daylight crews will deploy over 70 trucks salting and plowing. Additional crews will be out Tuesday morning, salting and shoveling City steps, sidewalks, and bridges. Crews will work around the clock servicing City streets until the storm has passed through the area. The City Snow Plow Tracker App will be activated throughout the duration of the storm.Public Works is asking residents to park vehicles as far away from the travel lane on their streets as is reasonably possible, to give plow drivers room to safely service roadways. Travel on City streets will be difficult on Monday, especially Monday evening, as crews work through salting and plowing neighborhoods. Motorists are advised to travel only when necessary on Monday, and use caution when driving on steep roads and narrow streets. | 14/2/2021 11:38:53 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Monday, February 15, 2021 | No public events scheduled | 15/2/2021 08:30:04 |
| Free Public Wi-Fi Added to Citiparks Recreation Centers | PITTSBURGH, PA (February 16, 2021) Free pubic wi-fi will be boosted at two City of Pittsburgh recreation centers under legislation being introduced today to City Council. Using $43,000 in funding via the Hunt Foundation and the Allegheny County Department of Human Services, Citiparks plans to add public wi-fi access to the Phillips Rec Center in Carrick and the McKinley Rec Center in Beltzhoover.   This will effectively amplify the City's current wi-fi that is provided at the centers, which allows residents to connect to it in the general rec center area, including their parking lots. Rec centers are currently closed to the public during the COVID-19 pandemic. The technology upgrades could be completed as early as this week. NOTE: An earlier version of this release incorrectly said funding came from the federal CARES Act. | 16/2/2021 09:11:49 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Tuesday, February 16, 2021 | 2021 Annual Georgetown University Mayors Summit: Recover StrongerTime: 5:30 p.m. | 16/2/2021 08:34:01 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Wednesday, February 17, 2021 | No public events scheduled | 17/2/2021 09:23:03 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Thursday, February 18, 2021 | U.S. Conference of Mayors Winter Leadership MeetingTime: 1 p.m.Speaking at Sustainable Development Solutions Network USA MeetingTime: 3:30 p.m. | 18/2/2021 08:32:25 |
| Mayor Peduto to Represent Pittsburgh on World Stage as United States Rejoins Paris Climate Agreement | PITTSBURGH, PA (February 18, 2021) Mayor William Peduto will represent Pittsburgh on the global stage in two international events Friday, as the United States formally rejoins the Paris Climate Agreement. Mayor Peduto will be the final speaker in tomorrow morning’s America is All In virtual event featuring Special Presidential Envoy on Climate John Kerry, White House National Climate Advisor Gina McCarthy and UN Special Envoy for Climate Ambition and Solutions Mike Bloomberg. In the afternoon he was invited by the EU Ambassador to the United States to deliver a virtual toast to the United States rejoining the accords in an event hosted by EU Member State embassies. Mayor Peduto attended the signing of the Paris Climate Agreement in 2015 and pledged that Pittsburgh would stand by it even after President Donald President removed the United States from the agreement in 2017. On the direction of President Joseph Biden the United States is officially rejoining the international accords tomorrow, February 19. Mayor Peduto has been a leading international voice on the power of local government to fight climate change. He is the North American representative to the Global Covenant of Mayors for Climate and Energy, and his battles with the Trump administration on climate leadership are featured in the National Geographic documentary “Paris to Pittsburgh.”He and Paris Mayor Anne Hidalgo joined together in 2017 to write in favor of the accords, and late last year he joined with mayors across Appalachia and the Ohio River Valley to urge approval of a Marshall Plan for Middle America to transition Pennsylvania, Ohio, Kentucky and West Virginia to renewable energy. | 18/2/2021 13:29:11 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Friday, February 19, 2021 | America is All In Event on Paris Climate AgreementTime: 10 a.m.European Union Toast to Paris Climate AgreementTime: 4 p.m. | 19/2/2021 08:47:15 |
| Despite Global Pandemic, Bond Rating Agencies Reaffirm City's Credit Rating | PITTSBURGH, PA (February 22, 2021) Two bond rating agencies reaffirmed the City of Pittsburgh’s AA- credit rating last week in advance of a $55 million bond issue, and praised the City’s management of its budget before and during the COVID-19 pandemic.The City’s fiscal planning and resiliency strategy over the past seven years turned a structurally deficient budget into a model of fiscal strength. The model’s success created a $120 million reserve fund that allowed the city to weather the COVID economic crisis. Today, the success of the city’s financial management is being recognized by two independent financial rating agencies, upholding the strong credit ratings that allows the city to borrow capital budget funds at a better rate to save taxpayers money.S&amp;P Global Ratings said the City’s financial outlook is stable and with an improving revenue environment said it could rebuild the reserves it used to offset budget losses during the pandemic. Fitch differed, saying it will be challenging to build up those reserves and said the financial outlook is negative due to budget unknowns this year.The S&amp;P report issued February 18 said in part:“Overall, we believe the financial progress made by Pittsburgh prior to the recent recession positioned the city well to absorb the negative effects of the pandemic while maintaining operations. Pittsburgh used reserves in 2020 to cover revenue losses and increased expenses without major service disruptions.. . . Given an improving revenue environment and current federal aid proposals, combined with the city's commitment to make expenditure reductions if needed, we do not expect the city's finances will weaken significantly in 2021, and we believe reserves could even improve by year end.”Fitch Ratings said this in its February 18 report in improvements to the former Beltzhoover School as part of the Neighborhood Initiatives Fund (NIF) program.“How exciting to come to this day on the heels of such a considerable community process. It is thrilling to see the culmination of the work to date accomplished in partnership with the Beltzhoover Consensus Group, Heinz Endowments, Birmingham Foundation, Mayor Peduto and the URA. Anticipation of this 100 year old gem, adorning the Beltzhoover neighborhood, coming alive again, is the realization the dream so many have held  since it’s closing in 2004,” said Councilman Bruce A. Kraus.The full RFP can be found here. Responses are due May 14, 2021. The URA is now using Ion Wave Technology, a cloud-based bidding platform for the automatic notification and transmittal of bid solicitations at no charge to vendors. To receive notifications, you must register with the new system. All parties interested in responding to this RFP or receiving notifications when the URA releases an opportunity must register with Ion Wave Technology. Instructions for the registration process can be found here and on the URA’s proposals and bids webpage. All questions regarding this RFQ should be submitted through Ion Wave Technology. | 8/3/2021 10:31:17 |
| The City of Pittsburgh Migrates to Google Cloud | PITTSBURGH, PA &amp; SUNNYVALE, CA (March 8, 2021) – The City of Pittsburgh today announced a four-year agreement with Google Cloud to migrate its legacy IT infrastructure to Google Cloud. The agreement allows the city to not only lower its IT costs, but also improve delivery of citizen services and become the region's leader in cloud-native software development.  Under the agreement, the City of Pittsburgh Department of Innovation &amp; Performance will transform and modernize its IT infrastructure onto Google Cloud. The city will then be able to build new data analytics tools to drive smart city initiatives, as well as create entirely new consumer-facing applications to deliver new digital services for its residents. As a result, the city will save costs, move off its brittle legacy IT structure, and ultimately create a cloud-based technology platform for the future. “We were immediately impressed with the scalability and flexibility of Google Cloud after using the technology for an initial storage migration last year,” said Heidi Norman, acting director of the City of Pittsburgh Department of Innovation &amp; Performance. “We realized all the different ways we could partner with Google Cloud to reduce the barriers of entry to move to a more cloud-focused approach to service delivery, and from there, developed a plan to rapidly adopt Google Cloud for our remaining on-premises applications. Ultimately, this migration will save city employees time and allow us to better deliver resident services.” Through this migration, Pittsburgh will be able to leverage Google Cloud to quickly scale applications and other systems requirements as needed. Ultimately this will give the city's 19 departments the ability to create and scale services for residents to improve quality of life, including in the areas of mobility, transportation, infrastructure, public safety, and more based on the community's expressed needs. City officials also chose Google Cloud for scalability and security, as both aspects were essential in powering applications across multiple departments simultaneously, as well as handling critical services in the Department of Public Safety, such as police, fire, and emergency medical services that rely on always-on technology to help save lives. “We’re proud to partner with the City of Pittsburgh as part of its bold and transformative shift to the cloud,” said Mike Daniels, vice president, Global Public Sector, Google Cloud. “The city’s approach, powered by our technology, will open many opportunities to reimagine how to serve citizens, now and into the future.” About Google CloudGoogle Cloud accelerates organizations’ ability to digitally transform their business with the best infrastructure, platform, industry solutions and expertise. We deliver enterprise-grade cloud solutions that leverage Google’s cutting-edge technology to help companies operate more efficiently and adapt to changing needs, giving customers a foundation for the future. Customers in more than 200 countries and territories turn to Google Cloud as their trusted partner to solve their most critical business problems. | 8/3/2021 08:52:49 |
| URA Initiatives in Crawford Roberts and Hazelwood to Support Neighborhood Stability and Home Ownership | PITTSBURGH, PA (March 9, 2021) New for-sale housing is planned to be built on vacant parcels owned by the Urban Redevelopment Authority of Pittsburgh in Crawford Roberts and Hazelwood, moving the lots back onto tax rolls and incorporating affordable housing units. The URA board is set to vote on plans from Bridging the Gap Development to build six for-sale townhomes on 12 URA parcels on Wylie Avenue, Roberts Street, Peach Street, Peach Way and Manilla Street in the Crawford Square Homes Redevelopment Area.  Two of the houses are planned for households with incomes up to 80% Area Median Income (AMI). “Building on these lots has long been a goal of the Crawford Square Home Owners Association, and I want to thank the developers and the URA for working together on this next phase of growth in this thriving neighborhood,” City Councilman Daniel Lavelle said. In Hazelwood, the URA is set to enter exclusive negotiations with the City of Bridges Community Land Trust (CBCLT) for the sale of eight publicly owned parcels along Chatsworth and Hazelwood Avenues to build affordable housing units. CBCLT plans to build 12 new, permanently affordable for-sale units available to households between 50% and 80% AMI.  “This project will take vacant lots off an important corridor in Hazelwood, strengthen the residential character of the neighborhood, and allow lower-income residents to be a part of the rebirth of the community,” Councilman Corey O’Connor said. The plans go before the URA board on Thursday. | 9/3/2021 13:51:35 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Tuesday, March 9, 2021 | Meeting with County Executive Rich FitzgeraldTime: 11 a.m. | 9/3/2021 08:46:21 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Wednesday, March 10, 2021 | Quartertly City-County Call with FoundationsTime: 8:30 a.m.Speaking to Scotland is Now Cities Countdown to COPTime: 10 a.m.Affordable Housing Press ConferenceTime: 12:30 p.m. | 10/3/2021 09:34:33 |
| Mayor Peduto and URA Launch Affordable Home Ownership and Neighborhood Blight-Fighting Initiative | PITTSBURGH, PA (March 10, 2021) Mayor William Peduto and the Urban Redevelopment Authority of Pittsburgh today announced the launch of OwnPGH, a bond-funded single-family home acquisition and rehab program, and provided updates on the Pittsburgh Land Bank and other tools that will support affordable home ownership and neighborhood blight-fighting tools citywide. The centerpiece of OwnPGH is a $22 million bond issuance to finance a fund that will lower barriers to the acquisition of single-family homes throughout the City of Pittsburgh. The URA also plans a separate fund to help homebuyers cover rehabilitation costs. At a press conference in Larimer, Mayor Peduto, Councilman Rev. Ricky Burgess, URA Executive Director Greg Flisram and Deputy Executive Director Diamonte Walker also announced organizational changes to improve the land acquisition efforts of the Pittsburgh Land Bank and a new initiative by the City Department of Finance to ease the acquisition of side yards.  The press conference was held outside at a newly constructed affordable home on Mayflower Street by the URA’s Pittsburgh Housing Development Corporation (PHDC). It is near to five other affordable new construction units by the PHDC on the street, as well as up to three more being built next year on nearby Carver Street. “Cumulatively these efforts of OwnPGH will not only get vacant homes and lots back onto tax rolls, but improve neighborhood quality of life and help Pittsburghers accomplish the dream of home ownership,” Mayor Peduto said. The $22 million fund will offer competitive interest rates to interested borrowers wishing to acquire homes to serve as their primary residences. The bond debt will be repaid over the life of the mortgages as the borrowers repay their mortgages. In addition, the URA plans to use $4 million of its existing Mortgage Revenue Bond Proceeds account to fund deferred second mortgages to help buyers finance home rehabilitation costs. Up to 20% of the property’s purchase price, or $40,000 per property, whichever is less, will be made available to borrowers in the form of a deferred second mortgage.  The URA anticipates a summer bond issuance and late summer or early fall rollout of the program. The URA board is set to vote on the program Thursday. At the Pittsburgh Land Bank (PLB) meeting Friday, Councilman Rev. Burgess, the board chairman, is set to announce that URA Deputy Executive Director Walker is assuming the position of PLB Executive Director and Greg Miller is becoming the PLB’s new manager. Miller, originally from southwestern Pennsylvania, is currently a Senior Urban Designer at the New York City Department of City Planning and will start in early April. The leadership changes are part of URA efforts to provide more staffing and expertise to support the PLB’s mission.  The changes are coming in tandem with a partnership between State Sen. Wayne Fontana and Mayor Peduto to help the land bank more efficiently acquire vacant and distressed properties and get them back onto the tax rolls. The Senator plans to introduce legislation that would make it easier for the PLB to acquire properties at sheriff’s sales at amounts equal to the outstanding claims and liens against the properties regardless of bids by other parties, similar to the powers granted to Philadelphia’s successful land bank. Finally, OwnPGH includes a new effort by the Finance Department to make the purchase of vacant, city-owned side yards easier for homeowners.  Currently, after a purchaser has applied to purchase a side yard and has been deemed an approved buyer, the City orders a title report on the property detailing its legal status, outstanding taxes and liens, and ownership history. Unfortunately, the process can take years to complete, as the City has a backlog of some 100 title reports stretching back three years. The Finance Department now plans to tell purchasers to order their own title reports, which is already required of buyers of all other City properties, and should speed up the side yard process by giving interested buyers incentive to finish the title reports quickly and allow them to use the title vendor of their choice. | 10/3/2021 11:04:22 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Thursday, March 11, 2021 | Interview with TechCrunchTime: 12:30 p.m. | 11/3/2021 08:31:14 |
| URA Board Approves Sale of Centre Avenue Site For Relocation and Expansion of Big Tom's Barbershop | PITTSBURGH, PA (March 12, 2021) The URA Board of Directors has accepted the redevelopment proposal and approved the sale of 2178 Centre Avenue and three adjacent lots in the Hill District to Thomas Boyd for $21,000 plus costs to relocate and expand his business, Big Tom’s Barbershop. 2178 Centre Avenue is the former home to Hamm’s Barber Shop, an iconic building in the neighborhood. Mr. Boyd has operated Big Tom’s Barbershop in the Hill for 15 years.  "This move brings back Walter Hamm’s legendary location on Centre Avenue and adds in Big Tom’s vision for the rebirth of the Hill," Mayor William Peduto said.  At its February 2020 Regular Board Meeting, the URA authorized a period of Exclusive Negotiations for Thomas Boyd. Mr. Boyd’s barbershop business will relocate to the first floor of the rehabilitated Hamm’s structure, while the second and third floors will be renovated into 2 two-bedroom apartments, affordable at 50%-80% AMI. The adjacent lots will be used for outdoor deck space that could be utilized by the community or by neighborhood-based businesses. Neighborhood Allies awarded Mr. Boyd a $50,000 predevelopment grant that the URA matched with an additional $50,000. The total estimated development cost for this project is $1,316,283.   “We are very excited about what this expansion signifies, not just for Tom but for the Centre Avenue corridor,” said URA Deputy Executive Director Diamonte Walker. “When we talk about Avenues of Hope, we are talking about working together to realize the community's vision by supporting and investing in local entrepreneurs and neighborhood-based economic development initiatives. Investing in projects like Big Tom’s Barbershop is how we are working to rebuild once thriving business districts and centers of Black culture and commerce, like the Hill District.” In July 2019, the URA released an RFQ seeking multiple developers to purchase and redevelop any portion of 170 publicly-owned parcels along the Centre Avenue Corridor in the Middle Hill neighborhood. The goal was to select developers to work to implement uses and further concepts articulated by the community as described in the 2015 Centre Avenue Corridor Redevelopment and Design Plan and the 2011 Greater Hill District Master Plan. Central to the plans are the following priorities:       - Creating opportunities for minority and local developers;    - Revitalizing Centre Avenue as the neighborhood’s primary retail, institutional, and cultural node as well as a strong residential neighborhood;    - Building upon the African American cultural legacy;    - Creating family-friendly housing without displacement;    - Fostering economic empowerment; and    - Producing comprehensive sustainability and quality design.   On September 9, 2020, the URA held a community meeting in partnership with Council District 6, to present the Centre Avenue Round 1 RFQ proposals for community input. Mr. Boyd presented his proposal to the community and received an approval score of 100%.   "We're just happy with all the efforts and we appreciate all the support from the URA, Councilman Lavelle, and all the people at Neighborhood Allies," Mr. Boyd said. "I want to push forward to get this development project going because I know it will do a lot to uplift the Hill District community and I'm thankful for the opportunity." | 12/3/2021 09:23:18 |
| Citiparks Distributes Half-Million Meals Since Start of Pandemic | PITTSBURGH, PA (March 12, 2021) One year after the start of the COVID-19 pandemic, the City of Pittsburgh Department of Parks &amp; Recreation has reached a significant milestone with the distribution of a half-million free meals to eligible children and seniors. Since March of 2020 Citiparks has distributed an estimated 423,600 Grab n Go meals to children and approximately 100,000 meals to seniors. While Citiparks recreation and senior centers have been closed to activities during the pandemic, many have been repurposed as safe sites for food distribution to those in need. Many partners have helped with the food efforts, including Parkhurst Dining, Eat’n Park, the Salvation Army and many others, and their meal counts are not included in the 523,600 meals estimate. "Though COVID has transformed our lives in unimaginable ways, the City and its Parks &amp; Recreation Team have been able to provide over one-half million meals to children and seniors over these last 12 months. We could not have done this without the support of a multitude of community partners — almost too many to even list,” Citiparks Director Ross Chapman said. “I want to thank the Mayor and his Administration, my co-workers and colleagues, our partners and the residents of Pittsburgh for allowing us to provide direct and tangible support during this time of need." | 12/3/2021 11:37:43 |
| Friendship Community Group Seeks Artist for Asphalt Art Project | PITTSBURGH, PA (March 15, 2021) The Friendship Community Group has issued a request for proposals (RFP) for artists to complete a community-focused art installation at a five-way intersection in the Friendship neighborhood. The project, which includes additional street safety improvement designs in partnership with the City of Pittsburgh Department of Mobility and Infrastructure (DOMI), is being funded through an Asphalt Art Initiative grant from Bloomberg Philanthropies.  The Asphalt Art Initiative is a new program from Bloomberg Philanthropies created to help cities use art and design to improve street safety, revitalize public spaces and engage their communities. The program not only seeks to create vibrant public spaces but also looks to build city capacity for working with artists and community groups on projects involving transportation infrastructure. This project will enhance the five-way intersection near the FCG-owned and programmed Baum Grove Parklet, at Harriet, South Fairmont, and Roup Avenues in the Friendship neighborhood of Pittsburgh, through asphalt paintings in the newly designed pedestrian plazas and activated curb extensions. Feedback from the surrounding neighbors, community members, neighborhood organization, and art community will help inform the asphalt art design and help with project installation. “It is an honor to be selected for the Bloomberg Philanthropies’ inaugural Asphalt Art grant. Working with our partners at DOMI and the City of Pittsburgh, along with the talented teams at Bloomberg and Street Plans, we have a redesigned intersection streetscape that will improve the safety of a confusing intersection while creating a beautiful work of art on the new pedestrian plazas. The Friendship Community is a strong collection of diverse neighbors with a history of community engagement and inclusive processes. We are excited to bring the art to our streets. We look forward to being inspired by the new art that encompasses what Friendship values: Friendship, Unity, Hope, Nature, and Harmony” states Sara DeLucia, President of Friendship Community Group. The goals of the project are to improve safety and the pedestrian experience through slower traffic speeds, shorter crossing distances and enhanced vibrancy and beautification. The asphalt art will be the foundation of the improvements that will extend on all portions of the large intersection. Data collection before and after the project will measure the impacts of these improvements. Project engagement began in the Autumn of 2020 with the goal to install the art in Summer 2021. The Friendship Community Group is managing the RFP and it can be found here. Applications are due April 12th and an artist or artist collective will be chosen by April 20th. For additional information, about the Asphalt Art Initiative, visit Bloomberg Philanthropies. | 15/3/2021 11:10:08 |
| Mayor Peduto Joins Support for Citizenship through American Dream and Promise Act | PITTSBURGH, PA (March 15, 2021) Mayor William Peduto and others in the U.S. Conference of Mayors are pledging support for legislation easing the pathway to citizenship for those who have lived in the country since they were children. H.R. 6  is the American Dream and Promise Act. It would allow Dreamers — those who have lived in the United States since childhood and have built their lives in the country — to earn lawful and permanent citizenship if they meet certain criteria. “Pittsburgh was built on the shoulders of those who settled here seeking to build a new future for themselves and their families. We should embrace those searching for a legal means for becoming U.S. residents, and welcome them to become Americans,” Mayor Peduto said. The support letter from USCOM is below. Dear Members of the U.S. House of Representatives: We write on behalf of the nation’s mayors to urge you to quickly pass H.R. 6, the Dream and Promise Act.  This legislation would enable Dreamers – people who have lived in America since they were children and built their lives here – to earn lawful permanent residence and eventually American citizenship if they meet certain criteria.  We pledge to work with you in this effort and to do whatever we can to assist you in seeing it enacted into law. The United States Conference of Mayors has had strong policy supporting permanent legal status for Dreamers and extension of the DACA program for many years.  Our bipartisan organization has adopted this policy because it is the right thing to do – for Dreamers, for our communities and for our country.  The cultural, economic, and social contributions of the 800,000 DACA recipients and their families to their communities cannot be overstated; particularly during a global pandemic where over 200,000 DACA recipients are working in essential roles including 27,000 in health care positions. In 2019 the Conference adopted policy specifically “calling on Congress to pass H.R. 6 the American Dream and Promise Act to ensure that Dreamers and TPS and DED recipients continue to live in, contribute to and ensure the prosperity of the cities they call home.”  Dreamers and TPS and DED beneficiaries are longtime residents who call the United States home. The average TPS holder has been here for 22 years, and the average DACA recipient came at age 6. Many Dreamers and TPS and DED holders are essential workers, working on the frontline to fight the Covid pandemic and helping to save lives. The time for Congress to act is now. | 15/3/2021 11:06:52 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Monday, March 15, 2021 | No public events scheduled | 15/3/2021 08:44:43 |
| Award Winning Rec2Tech Program Expanding Offerings to Pittsburgh Youth | PITTSBURGH, PA (March 16, 2021) Rec2Tech classes from the Department of Parks &amp; Recreation continued virtually through the last year, and will continue to expand with new classes in computer coding this spring. Introduced by Mayor William Peduto and led by Citiparks’ Digital Inclusion Coordinator Max Dennison, the tech classes for youth seek to bridge the digital divide by providing free STEM instruction at City recreation centers. As the rec centers have been closed since the start of the pandemic in March 2020 Dennison moved the classes online, serving more than 100 students in all. “Max is one of the City of Pittsburgh’s finest ambassadors, and the training and opportunities he is giving City youth will pay off for years to come,” Mayor Peduto said. “With the direct support of Mayor Peduto and his Administration, the National Science Foundation / Digital Harbor Foundation, and other generous area supporters, the City of Pittsburgh is now better positioned to offer tech-based programs and activities that many city youth have had very limited exposure to,” Citiparks Director Ross Chapman said. “In addition to the dynamic recreational activities that we offer, my hope is that Citiparks' Recreation Centers will be able to be viewed more as learning hubs. The goal is to deliver impactful programs that are designed to help address the digital divide, while also provide more equitable and inclusive avenues to resources and enrichment. Max's experience, knowledge and commitment are helping us rethink our approach to more formal learning in less formal settings, and we're all very excited to see where we can take this in the next few years." In 2019-2020 Rec2Tech provided in-person and virtual trainings including: - Paulson (Summer 2019), 12 student cohort  - Phillips AI Bootcamp (Oct/Nov 2019), four 2 hour classes 12 students  - Warrington (Fall/Winter 2019), 10 students  - Coding Camp (Summer 2020) — in conjunction with Citicamp@Home, 40 students served. - Coding Camp 2 (Summer 2020 – in conjunction with Citicamp@Home, 40 students served.  - Holiday Coding Class (January 1, 2021), 10 students served  - Black History Month Coding Cohort (February 22, 2021), 10 students served. The following initiatives are being offered this year: 2021 Coding Cohorts: Citiparks will continue to offer virtual and when able in-person coding classes for both beginner and intermediate level participants. These coding classes are four weeks of instruction, culminating in a project that provides participants with an opportunity to create with their new coding skills. Courses will start up this month. Clubhouse: An informal monthly drop-in style coding meet up for all. Each month will feature a new project for those that want to code to work on together. This program will feature a variety of partners that will co-lead projects and activities with participants. The first clubhouse session will be this month. Tech Talks with Mr. Max: This is a series of virtual conversations with tech professionals that will give young people a glimpse into various tech careers and an opportunity to ask local tech professionals about careers in tech. Kicking off in Spring of 2021.  STEM Coding Lab &amp; Pittsburgh Technology Council Partnership: A four week summer 2021 learning experience for middle school kids that will introduce participants to STEM and tech education and careers in STEM while also connecting youth to local STEM professionals.  National Science Foundation Digital Harbor Foundation Program: This three year partnership will build out tech maker spaces in two Citiparks recreation centers and provide a robust maker based tech curriculum to participants. This project is scheduled to begin in the Fall of 2021. More information is available here. ( Image: Citiparks/City Channel Pittsburgh. Click for video.) | 16/3/2021 08:55:35 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Tuesday, March 16, 2021 | Speaking at Virtual 2021 Mayors Summit Against Anti-SemitismTime: 11 a.m.Meeting with Builders GuildTime: 1 p.m.Snow Angels Volunteering Event with Bloomfield-Garfield Corp.Time: 6 p.m. | 16/3/2021 07:34:18 |
| City of Pittsburgh to Launch Phase 2 of Blue Recycling Bin Distribution in May | PITTSBURGH, PA (March 16, 2021) Mayor William Peduto today announced a May launch of the second phase of the Department of Public Works Environmental Services’ distribution of 32-gallon blue curbside recycling bins to City residents as part of a transition away from a bag-based recycling program into a bin-based collection method.Over a two-year period, the City of Pittsburgh is distributing over 100,000 blue recycling bins to all single family homes, duplexes and apartment buildings with five or fewer units with a goal of becoming BAG FREE BY ’23.The Blue Bin Rollout program, which began in Fall 2020, has delivered bins to 5,500 residents of East Liberty, Friendship, Garfield, Highland Park and Lower Polish Hill. The second and third phases, taking place in Spring and Summer 2021, will serve approximately 50,000 homes in remaining central and eastern neighborhoods. Residents of southern, western and northern neighborhoods will receive bins in 2022.“The City of Pittsburgh is now offering residents a method that makes it easy for people to create the habit of single-stream recycling, which allows residents to combine all recyclable materials in one container,” said Mayor William Peduto. “Blue bins offer many advantages such as saving on costs for both residents and the City, providing high-value recyclables to the circular economy and cutting contamination.”Prior to receiving the new recycling bins, residents will receive notification via U.S. Mail announcing when to anticipate the arrival of their new blue curbside recycling containers, along with information on what can and cannot be placed in the bin.Rehrig Pacific Company – which is manufacturing the bins in Pennsylvania – will deliver a 32-gallon blue recycling bin with tight-fitting lid to each designated residence. Each bin will come with an information packet describing its proper use, and each bin will be scanned and linked to a specific address. Up to two 18-gallon totes are available as an alternative for medical exemption. Qualifying individuals must contact 311 City Response Center to request totes.When using the blue bins, residents must loosely place recyclables in the bins without plastic bags, which can jam up equipment at processing facilities. Residents can deposit into the bins glass and plastic bottles, jugs and jars (lids removed), aluminum and steel cans, and mixed paper. Clean cardboard must be flattened, boxed and placed next to the bin.“Education is a key component of successfully transitioning to the bag-free collection system, and we’re excited to offer a variety of opportunities for residents to learn more about what goes in the bin and what does not,” said Teresa Bradley, Pittsburgh’s recycling supervisor. “While many people think they’re recycling correctly, they’re actually tossing in plastic containers – such as yogurt tubs, K-cups and take-out clamshells – that do not belong in a blue bin.  Plus there’s the issue of how you can responsibly dispose of scrap metal, tires, yard debris, household chemicals and e-waste, so we want to make sure residents have an opportunity to learn to recycle correctly.”Residents can learn to recycle correctly by taking part in a series of free online workshops beginning in late March. The 30-minute webinar, presented by the Pennsylvania Resources Council, will spotlight bin use as well as options for recycling hard-to-recycle materials. Individuals can register for a webinar at www.pittsburghpa.gov/dpw/recycling-blue-bins.Webinars will take place: Sunday, March 21, at 2:00 p.m.; Wednesday, March 24, at 6:30 p.m.; Tuesday, April 6, at 6:30 p.m.; Saturday, April 10, at 10:30 a.m.; Wednesday, April 14, at 6:30 p.m.; Tuesday, April 20, at 6:30 p.m.; Saturday, April 24, at 10:30 a.m.; Monday, May 3, at 6:30 p.m.; and Monday, May 10, at 6:30 p.m. A Spanish language webinar will take place Wednesday, April 28, at 6:30 p.m.Pop-up events taking place in the spring will provide several in-person opportunities to learn more.Funding for the Blue Bin Rollout is provided in part by grants from the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection, The Recycling Partnership and the Mayor's commitment to move the City toward zero waste. The distribution plan is based on multiple factors: available funds, Bureau of Environmental Services' recycling routes, recycling participation surveys and technical assistance provided by The Recycling Partnership.“Pittsburgh is adapting to a stronger culture of waste reduction and material reuse, and blue bin recycling will make that culture change more accessible and equitable for all residents,” said Mayor Peduto. Residents can learn more about the Blue Bin Rollout program at 311 City Response Center, Twitter @PGH311, PGH.ST and www.pittsburghpa.gov/dpw/recycling-blue-bins. | 16/3/2021 09:52:55 |
| Reconstruction of Olympia Park Shelter House in Mount Washington/Duquesne Heights Expected This Summer | PITTSBURGH, PA (March 17, 2021) The City of Pittsburgh Department of Public Works has awarded a design contract for the Olympia Park Shelter House, allowing for the renovation of the Mount Washington/Duquesne Heights shelter to proceed this summer and fall. DPW awarded the contract to Landmarks SGA, LLC, with redesign of the shelter expected to take 3-4 months. After construction bids are circulated build-out should start in August or September and take an estimated 6 months to complete. “Olympia Park is heavily used by the Mount Washington and Duquesne Heights communities and they deserve a top-notch shelter. I’m so happy that DPW and Mayor Peduto prioritized this project,” City Councilwoman Theresa Kail-Smith said. The scope of work was informed from input from park neighbors. Details of the renovation are expected to include: - Full interior renovation/rebuild that will include a large gathering space, kitchen, restrooms, multi-purpose rooms, concession stand, and storage - New exterior doors, windows, and paint that retain historic character - New mechanical, electrical, plumbing, fire protection, and security systems - Energy-efficient and reduced water usage - Modifications to allow for ADA access on both levels | 17/3/2021 09:49:09 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Wednesday, March 17, 2021 | Mayors for a Guaranteed Income Virtual Meeting with Sen. Bob CaseyTime: 1:30 p.m.Virtual Meeting of Stanton Heights Neighborhood AssociationTime: 6:30 p.m. | 17/3/2021 08:36:12 |
| City of Pittsburgh Extends Income Tax Filing Deadline to May 17, 2021 | PITTSBURGH, PA (March 18, 2021) The City of Pittsburgh is extending its personal income tax filing deadline until May 17, in line with extensions announced by the Internal Revenue Service and the Pennsylvania Department of Revenue.  The City, state and federal governments are adopting the one-month extension to give taxpayers more flexibility with their finances during the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic. More information on City taxes is available here at the Finance Department website. | 18/3/2021 12:41:25 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Thursday, March 18, 2021 | American Cities Climate Challenge MeetingTime: 12:30 p.m.Speaking on Horasis Global Visions Panel on Clean Mobility and the Transition to New EnergyTime: 4 p.m. | 18/3/2021 08:31:55 |
| Overnight Herron Avenue Closures Next Week | PITTSBURGH, PA (March 19, 2021) The City of Pittsburgh’s Department of Mobility and Infrastructure will be conducting pavement coring/testing on Herron Avenue in Polish Hill starting Monday, March 22, 2021. The purpose of the testing is to ensure long-term durability of the street reconstruction that was performed in 2019 related to the Pittsburgh Water and Sewer Authority project in the area.The work will require full closures of Herron Avenue between Cargill Street and Bigelow Boulevard nightly from 7:00 PM to 5:00 AM, from Monday, March 22 through Friday, March 26, 2021.Thank you for your cooperation during this time and we hope there will be only minor inconveniences. If you have any questions regarding this closure, please contact the City’s Response Center by dialing 311 or 412-255-2621. | 19/3/2021 10:23:08 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Friday, March 19, 2021 | Firefighter Swearing-In CeremonyTime: 10 a.m.Location: 1395 Washington Blvd, Highland ParkFreedom House 2.0 GraduationTime: 11 a.m.Location: 510 Heldman St., Hill DistrictSunrise Movement Climate StrikeTime: 1 p.m.Location: Flagstaff Hill, Schenley ParkRibbon-Cutting for Linzy's Macetas with Councilman CoghillTime: 2 p.m.Location: 1662 Broadway Ave., Beechview | 19/3/2021 08:38:19 |
| Candlelight Vigil Sunday Night Remembering Atlanta Victims | PITTSBURGH, PA (March 21, 2021) A candlelight vigil will be held on the portico of the City-County Building this evening in honor of the 8 victims of the shooting in Atlanta on March 16:Delaina Ashley Yaun, 33Paul Andre Michels, 54Xiaojie Tan, 49Daoyou Feng, 44Soon Chung Park, 74Hyun Jung Grant, 51Suncha Kim, 69Yong Ae Yue, 63Please stand together against hate and condemn violence against Asian Americans.When: Sunday, March 21. Gather at 6:30 pm, speakers will begin at 7 pm.Where: Steps of the City County Building, 414 Grant St. You can watch this event livestreamed at facebook.com/WelcomingPGH.Masks required. Bring your own posters. Please practice social distancing.This event is co-hosted by the Pittsburgh UCA, local AAPI leaders, Pennsylvania Governor's Advisory Commission on Asian Pacific American Affairs, and Welcoming Pittsburgh. Welcoming Pittsburgh is an immigrant and refugee inclusion initiative for the City of Pittsburgh.Contact:Nancy Xiao, 412-651-6931 | 21/3/2021 09:35:15 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Monday, March 22, 2021 | No public events scheduled | 22/3/2021 08:28:18 |
| Sustainability and Resilience Division Details 2020 Successes | PITTSBURGH, PA (March 22, 2021) The City of Pittsburgh’s Division of Sustainability and Resilience reported a number of successful steps on behalf of the environment in 2020 on topics as varied as fossil fuel disinvestment, electric vehicles, building efficiency and food security. “The City of Pittsburgh is making real and verifiable steps toward meeting our climate goals, and when they are added to the work of the Global Covenant of Mayors for Climate and Energy and others worldwide it proves that cities are leading the way in the fight against climate change,” Mayor William Peduto said. "We are proud of the work of our team and partnerships with all of the city departments. These results are a demonstration that sustainability is everyone's responsibility in an organization,” said Chief Resilience Officer Grant Ervin. “Over the last year, even under the duress of the pandemic, we are seeing the implementation of the City's Climate Action Plan being activated all corners of city government. From the City's Environmental Social Governance Policy implemented by the Pension Board to our Net Zero Buildings policy being delivered by the Department of Public Works, we are seeing how we can provide city services in a more sustainable and cost-effective way."  "Over the next couple years, we are going to see additional reductions in energy consumption, the continued growth of the region's largest fleet of electric vehicles, greater active transportation choices, more sustainable procurement and budget decisions and more local sourced renewable electricity being generated to supply our local governments," Ervin said.  The Division of Sustainability and Resilience, which is part of the Department of City Planning, recorded accomplishments last year across several categories. They included: Policy and Performance  - Drafted and approved Environmental Social and Governance (ESG) Procurement Policy for City’s Pension Fund  - Developed and Released with a multi-department team, the City’s first Voluntary Local Review of the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals, and submitted them to the United Nations  - Released, in collaboration with the University of Pittsburgh’s Center for Sustainable Business, seven Cities and the Heartland Investors Network, the Marshall Plan for Middle America, an energy and economic transition strategy for the Ohio Valley  - Released Feed PGH report, an evaluation of food insecurity across City of Pittsburgh  - Received a 19th place ranking from ACEEE - American Council for Energy Efficient Economies  - Received a 1st place designation from the USCoM - U.S. Conference of Mayors for Sustainability Innovation  - Submitted data to ICLEI, Carbon Disclosure Project and Global Covenant of Mayors Energy Procurement - Purchasing 100 percent renewable electricity with a new agreement with Direct Energy and $100,000 in savings for the City and $700,000 in savings across WPEC - Distributed and prioritized a new electrical supply contract RFP and finalists for the creation of a wholesale sub-account within PJM Interconnect  - Signed a new natural gas supply agreement with Snyder Brothers and T&amp;F Energy - Agreed to advance a Letter of Intent and Energy Services Agreement for steam and energy efficiency with Clearways Energy Energy Efficiency  - Completed Building Energy Efficiency Analysis and Prioritization with Rocky Mountain Institute (RMI)  - Established the Net Zero Buildings Implementation Unit (NZBIU)  - Established Street Lighting Retrofit Implementation Unit (SLRIU)  - Obtained approval and $4 million budget allocation to initiate LED street lighting retrofitting  - Obtained approval to scope and advance energy savings management projects with DPW  - Established Demand Response – energy curtailment- program with Direct Energy for Eazor Warehouse and City County Building  - Received Planning Commission and City Council Approval for Net Zero Energy Buildings Standard; and began the advancement of 9 NZE projects.  - Selected Maalka as software provider for Energy Benchmarking Program and collected and distributed 3rd year of commercial energy data reporting Climate and Energy Planning  - Established Five Delivery Units to advance climate initiatives (Streetlights, Energy Procurement, Energy Planning, Fleet Electrification, Net Zero Buildings)  - Received Technical Support from ACCC for Priority Based Budgeting (Climate Budget) for Resource X  - Received two support grants from the Energy Foundation for GBA (energy policy development) and PCRG (short distance trips)  - Completed Energy Plan and District Energy Analysis with Danish Energy Team and City of Aarhus, Denmark  - Completed Climate Adaptation Communications Deck and Narrative explained climate impacts on municipal operations Fleet Electrification  - Developed agreement with Parking Authority and City of Pittsburgh to relocate vehicles near electricity source at 10th Street Bridge  - Received $175,000 Covid Relief Grant from the Pennsylvania Energy Development Authority to advance 2nd Avenue EV Deployment  - Completed EV Master Plan Strategy with NRDC and Pittsburgh Parking Authority Circular Economy &amp; Food Policy  - Completed the first round of residential recycling bin distribution with Environmental Services team  - Selected by National Resources Defense Council to be a part of Food Matters (food waste reduction) Coalition  - Continued Adopt-a-Lot &amp; Farmers Market programs through pandemic  - Selected to join ICLEI’s Global Lead Cities for Sustainable Procurement Network  - Developed food insecurity research with Watson Fellowship Program  - Developed circular economy analysis of Pittsburgh food and buildings sector with Duquesne SMBA program  - Developed sustainability procurement dashboard criteria with Carnegie Mellon Policy Innovation Lab program | 22/3/2021 10:47:19 |
| Pittsburgh Police Win State Grant to Support Youth Outreach Program | PITTSBURGH, PA (March 23, 2021) The City of Pittsburgh Bureau of Police has won a state grant to boost efforts to work with city youth to reduce violence. The Pennsylvania Commission on Crime and Delinquency awarded the Bureau a $126,718 Community Violence grant to fund officer participation in Youth Connections programming, develop and train Youth Advisory Council members, and provide implicit bias training to teachers and staff at local schools. Youth Connections (YC) is a program Pittsburgh Police designed to build relationships between Pittsburgh youth and police officers in City communities. Through the program officers meet monthly with 9th grade students at Pittsburgh Public Schools, where they engage in mentoring, conduct lessons about the rights and responsibilities of young people during police interactions, engage in conversations about negative or positive police experiences, discuss stereotypes associated with each group, and engage in reverse role-play scenarios where the youth assume the role of the police officer in reality-based scenarios. “Youth Connections is among the most important outreach programs Pittsburgh Police have right now, and is making a real difference in improving community relations and sparking interest in the Public Safety Academy at Westinghouse High School,” Mayor William Peduto said. “I want to thank PCCD for this grant, as well as the students and Police Bureau officials participating in the program.” “PBP is so honored to receive PCCD grant monies to support efforts at building relationships with Pittsburgh youth,” says Community Engagement Officer Sergeant Tiffany Costa. “Youth Connections is a powerful way to establish bonds between youth and officers in a neutral environment that is conducive to hearing each other and building trust.” The grant funds will pay for wages for patrol officers who attend Youth Connections programming while not on duty, meals at Youth Connections mentor-focused sessions, and a consultant fee for 5A Elite, which is the nonprofit that trains youth leaders who have graduations from YC session to join its Youth Advisory Council. | 23/3/2021 14:18:03 |
| Pittsburgh Financial Empowerment Center Saves Clients Millions in Savings and Debt | PITTSBURGH, PA (March 23, 2021) The Pittsburgh Financial Empowerment Center (FEC) has provided direct personal financial management support to 868 people since the City of Pittsburgh and Neighborhood Allies launched the program in March 2019, leading to nearly $1.3 million in total debt reduction and $1 million in increased savings. The Pittsburgh FEC offers free professional one-on-one financial counseling for individuals and families looking to address their financial challenges and plan for their futures. Any area resident over the age of 18 can register to meet regularly with an accredited financial counselor — by phone or video during the pandemic — who will help them define and reach their own financial goals.   “Working with the FEC gave us a clearer picture of our finances and alleviated the stress of not being able to pay down our debt. We now have the confidence to be accountable to handle our debt with their tools and expertise,” one FEC client said. “Our FEC office has an amazing supportive staff that continues to point us in the right direction.” Henry Horn Pyatt, Economic Opportunity Manager for the City of Pittsburgh, said "We know that one of the most pernicious aspects of structural inequity is that it gets worse from generation to generation as folks don't have wealth and experience managing it to pass on to the next generation, and so that generation starts off behind their peers, and the cycle continues.  With an FEC counselor, clients can tap into expert level financial advice, and be connected with tools like income supports and business capital, that help make meaningful strides toward ending the "ratchet" effect of generational economic inequity." The latest figures from the FEC show: - Total Debt Reduction (all clients): -$1,263,673 - Total Savings Increase (all clients): $1,001,041 - Average Debt Reduction per Client: 243 clients reduced debt by an average of $5,200 - Average savings increase per client: 256 clients increased saving by an average of almost $3,928 Other figures show: - Clients are 47.5% Black, 35% White, 17.5% other or multiple races - 85% of client households are below AMI - 64% of client households have an income of less than $35k/yr Pittsburgh FEC has been nationally recognized for its COVID-19 response in quickly migrating their services to phone and video and having counselors specially trained in federal and state COVID-19-specific assistance programs. In May, they received a grant from the Cities for Financial Empowerment Fund to hire an additional counselor to assist in the COVID-19 emergency response to Pittsburgh residents’ financial hardships. Pittsburgh FEC was recently highlighted for its leadership in financial counseling assistance in the Bloomberg Cities SPARK newsletter. Pittsburgh FEC is a free public service provided in partnership between the City of Pittsburgh Mayor’s Office of Equity, Neighborhood Allies, Advantage Credit Counseling Service, and Cities for Financial Empowerment. For more information or to register for counseling, visit their website or follow Pittsburgh FEC on Facebook. | 23/3/2021 10:16:30 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Tuesday, March 23, 2021 | Speaking at Carnegie Mellon University Energy WeekTime: 1 p.m.Speaking at 2021 Smart City Online ForumTime: 7 p.m. | 23/3/2021 08:40:13 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Wednesday, March 24, 2021 | Online Meeting with East Allegheny Community CouncilTime: 4 p.m. | 24/3/2021 08:06:09 |
| City Launches OurFuturePGH Website for Youth and Families | PITTSBURGH, PA (March 23, 2021) Mayor William Peduto and the Office of Equity announced today the launch of OurFuturePGH, a website to connect youth, families and organizations to educational and recreation opportunities provided by the City of Pittsburgh.  OurFuturePGH was designed as part of Mayor Peduto’s vision to centralize and promote free and low-cost public programs available to families for youth of all ages. It includes age- and developmentally appropriate city programs organized by age range offered by the Office of Equity, Department of Parks &amp; Recreation, Department of Mobility &amp; Infrastructure, Bureau of Police and more. The programs are designed to recognize, utilize and enhance young people’s strengths and focus on the 6 C’s of positive outcomes: confidence, connecting, competition, character, contribute, caring. “Our young people are Pittsburgh’s tomorrow,” said Mayor Peduto. “It’s important that we support children and youth so that they can grow to become self-sufficient and prepared for life, community and career. OurFuturePGH allows families and community organizations to easily find resources and programs for children and youth from the City of Pittsburgh.”  The website also includes additional resources from outside community partners for families that address needs such as technology, school options, parenting resources and more, particularly during the pandemic. | 24/3/2021 09:40:52 |
| DOMI Announces Walnut Street Lighting Project | PITTSBURGH, PA (March 24, 2021) The City of Pittsburgh’s Department of Mobility and Infrastructure (DOMI) is excited to announce a new complete pedestrian scale, street lighting system on Walnut Street in the Shadyside neighborhood. The project will consist of implementing 30 new decorative poles and LED acorn light fixtures that will be energized through underground conduit. Work is anticipated to start today, Wednesday, March 24, 2021.The City’s project is being coordinated and phased in with the Pittsburgh Water and Sewer Authority’s ongoing work. When the project is complete, Walnut Street will have a great new look with a new lighting design and newly paved roadway.Work will be phased to minimize parking and business deliveries obstructions. Businesses will remain open thrughout the entirety of the project. Detour signs will be placed to direct motorist to Ellsworth Avenue for both directions of travel. For side streets, advanced Road Closed Ahead signs will be posted to warn drivers of upcoming closures at intersections. Sidewalks will remain open throughout the entire project.For more information, please see the Walnut Street Lighting Project Factsheet on our webpage https://pittsburghpa.gov/domi/current-projects.Questions about the project can be directed to DOMI’s Operations Manager Denny Robinson at 412-606-2178 or denny.robinson@pittsburghpa.gov.A correction has been issued to this release to include that the new lighting fixtures will be energized through underground conduit. It was previously reported that the existing lighting and utility poles will be removed and that the project would improve the streetscape of Walnut Street and eliminate some of the existing overhead wiring and visual clutter. However, there are 13 existing cobrahead roadway lights attached to wooden utility poles with overhead wiring that will remain. No existing poles or existing overhead wiring are being removed or relocated as part of this project. | 24/3/2021 11:30:16 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - March 25, 2021 | Online meeting with Mayors of Aarhus, Denmark and Glasgow, ScotlandTime: 10 a.m. | 25/3/2021 07:44:42 |
| Infrastructure Improvements Coming to Obey Street | PITTSBURGH, PA (March 26, 2021) The Pittsburgh Water and Sewer Authority and the City Department of Mobility and Infrastructure are pleased to announce infrastructure improvements to Obey Street to address stormwater runoff issues in the corridor. The PWSA Board of Directors today approved $575,000 in funding to install approximately 365 linear feet of 36-inch storm sewer, 140 linear feet of 18-inch storm sewer and 135 linear feet of 15-inch storm sewer, as well as the requisite manholes and inlets on the Street. Final restoration of the site will be conducted by DOMI, which has already done much work in the area. “I’m happy that PWSA is working with the City to address the longstanding issues on this street and I know residents will be too. I want to thank the authority board and the Peduto administration for their cooperation on this effort,” Councilwoman Theresa Kail-Smith said. “We are hopeful that with the work accomplished by Public Works, the proposed grading and paving by DOMI, and PWSA’s additional infrastructure, that we can lessen the impact of the runoff,” PWSA CEO Will Pickering said. PWSA expects to start construction in mid April and complete it by the end of June.The DOMI Paving division paved Cleat Way (above Obey Street) in fall of 2020 to control runoff from that street. The DPW construction division also installed dura-hold walls with perforated pipe drainage to capture groundwater seeping out of the hillside and transmit it directly into the sewer system on Obey Street. After PWSA does their work, DOMI will complete paving on Obey Street and Magnus Street. | 26/3/2021 13:20:13 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Friday, March 26, 2021 | No public events scheduled | 26/3/2021 08:17:43 |
| DOMI Announces Closure of Mountain Avenue for Accessibility and Pedestrian Improvements | PITTSBURGH, PA (March 27, 2021) The City of Pittsburgh’s Department of Mobility and Infrastructure (DOMI) is announcing a closure to Mountain Avenue between Ormsby Street and Wagner Street in the St. Clair and Mt. Oliver neighborhoods beginning Monday, March 29, 2021.  The $160,000 project will improve sidewalks to increase accessibility and pedestrian safety  "Investing in infrastructure that provides for walkable neighborhoods is a perfect way to build strong communities,” said City Councilman Bruce Kraus.  A. Merante Contracting, Inc. will begin the replacement of sidewalks and curbs along Mountain Avenue and Fisher Street starting Monday through the scheduled completion on May 15, 2021. During the closure, bus and local traffic only will be permitted. Detours will be posted.  Additional questions about the closure can be directed to the City’s 311 Response Center by dialing 311 or 412-255-2621. | 27/3/2021 09:44:40 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Monday, March 29, 2021 | Meeting with PPGTime: 10:30 a.m.Attending Vietnam Veterans EventTime: 1 p.m.Meeting with Delegate General Catherine LoubierTime: 2 p.m. | 29/3/2021 08:54:48 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Tuesday, March 30, 2021 | Tour of Ebenezer Baptist ChurchTime: 1 p.m.Call with Bloomberg PhilanthropiesTime: 4:30 p.m. | 30/3/2021 08:28:23 |
| City of Pittsburgh to Revamp Recruitment of Minority and Women Firefighters | PITTSBURGH, PA (March 30, 2021) The City of Pittsburgh will introduce improvements to boost recruitment of qualified women and minorities to be firefighters through the recommendations of a year-long Firefighter Barrier Assessment study.Of the Fire Bureau’s 474 firefighters, five are women and 53 are minorities.After talks between Mayor William Peduto and International Association of Fire Fighters Local No. 1, the Department of Human Resources and Civil Service (HRCS) contracted with the National Testing Network in late 2019 to study ways to increase diversity within the Bureau of Fire, and it was submitted to the City late last year. After further discussions among HRCS, the Department of Public Safety, the Fire Bureau and IAFF new recruitment methods are ready to be introduced.“All of our Public Safety bureaus strive to reflect the make up of the communities they serve,” Public Safety Director Wendell Hissrich said. “In Pittsburgh, the population consists of 52% women and 28% minorities, yet the number of applications to the Pittsburgh Bureau of Fire does not currently mirror those numbers. The City is committed to attracting a more diverse workforce to choose a rewarding career with the Pittsburgh Bureau of Fire. This way we will better understand and communicate with our neighbors, keeping us all safe.”“A fire department is stronger when it understands its community and reflects the diversity of the community,” said Ralph Sicuro, President of the Pittsburgh Fire Fights, IAFF Local No. 1. “We will provide a higher level of service to our communities with a diverse organization because different viewpoints are embraced and effective making a healthier, more functional, more innovative and creative department. Understanding leads to safety.”Recommendations for the improved recruitment of qualified minority and women candidates to be Pittsburgh firefighters included:- Update the written exam to one that is more modern, has less group differences, and is appropriate for rank order use. Using written exams to rank order requires evaluating the impact within the upper scores on the test to ensure the barrier is not present.- Change the physical test to the Candidate Physical Abilities Test (CPAT) and use it as a pass/fail exam that does not have a weighted score. While the CPAT is the likely choice because it is a national standard, there are other validated options that are less costly.- Provide more candidate convenience in the hiring process. Allow candidates to test and/or submit applications for a longer period of time, including having more testing times and locations. The more the better. Also, provide opportunities to submit applications electronically.- Recruitment will have a larger impact once barriers are reduced. A broad candidate pool can help increase both the quality and diversity of candidates. However, process barriers will work against the positive impact of a large candidate pool.The City has already adopted some measures recommended by the study from youth recruitment (at the Public Safety Academy at PPS Westinghouse, and a youth camp for girls); a new written exam; and the ability to submit applications electronically.A correction has been made. It was previously reported that there were three women in the Fire Bureau. It has been updated to the correct number of five women. | 30/3/2021 10:31:30 |
| City Offices Closed But Refuse Collection to Continue on Good Friday | PITTSBURGH, PA (March 31, 2021) City of Pittsburgh offices and Citiparks facilities will be closed on Friday, April 2, in observance of Good Friday.   The Department of Public Works advises that refuse, bulk waste and recycling collection on Friday will continue as scheduled. However drop-off recycling facilities at DPW divisions will be closed.The following Citiparks facilties and food distribution schedules will be impacted from Friday, April 2, through Easter Sunday, April 4:HEALTHY ACTIVE LIVING CENTERS (Senior Centers)CLOSED—Friday, April 2, 2021The Grab ‘n Go Meal Schedule will accommodate Seniors with extra meals on Wednesday, March 31, 2021, and the regular schedule will resume on Monday, April 5, 2021.RECREATION CENTERSCLOSED—Friday, April 2, 2021The Grab ‘n Go Meal Schedule at Citiparks locations and our sponsored sites will be as follows:- Week of March 29, 2021: Distribution on Monday (3/29) &amp; Wednesday (3/31) ONLY—no Friday distribution.- Week of April 5, 2021: Distribution on Monday (4/5) will be at Citiparks locations ONLY (Ammon, Arlington, Brookline, Chadwick, Jefferson, Phillips, &amp; Warrington)- Regular distribution resumes on Wednesday, April 7th at ALL locations.- Family Dinner/Snack Pack distribution at Ormsby Rec Center on Friday, April 2, 2021 is CANCELLED.A complete listing of Recreation Center locations and sponsored locations can be found here.MELLON PARK TENNIS CENTERCLOSED: Easter Sunday — April 4, 2021.SCHENLEY PARK SKATING RINKClosed for the seasonOLIVER BATH HOUSERemains closed | 31/3/2021 10:34:41 |
| Mayor Peduto Joins Habitat Pittsburgh for Veterans Homeownership Initiative Ribbon Cutting | PITTSBURGH, PA (March 31, 2021) City of Pittsburgh Mayor William Peduto joined Habitat for Humanity of Greater Pittsburgh today for the ribbon cutting at Habitat Pittsburgh’s newest Veteran’s home in Larimer. The home was completely renovated by Habitat Pittsburgh along with volunteers as part of the Veterans Homeownership Initiative, a collaborative partnership between the City of Pittsburgh and Habitat Pittsburgh.  The Veterans Homeownership Initiative was created in 2016 in partnership with Mayor Peduto. Habitat Pittsburgh was able to purchase homes from the City in conjunction with the Urban Redevelopment Authority at low costs, then complete total rehabilitative transformation of the homes. Habitat Pittsburgh offers honorably discharged, qualified veterans 30-year 0% interest rate mortgages helping them attain affordable homeownership and build wealth.  “Today is a milestone for our partnership with Habitat Pittsburgh as they are creating opportunity in our neighborhoods and helping to ensure that our veterans, who have and continue to serve our nation, our city and our communities, have equitable access to affordable homeownership,” said Mayor William Peduto. “Thank you to their staff, board and volunteers for working with our team to show that community-based partners and government can collaborate to create homeownership and wealth-building opportunities in our city.”  Habitat Pittsburgh’s Veterans Homeownership Initiative is vitally important and a unique initiative to assist veterans in need of homeownership; these veterans have continued to serve our country admirably. Dr. Howard B. Slaughter, Jr., President &amp; CEO of Habitat Pittsburgh and U.S. Navy and U.S. Army Reserve Veteran, said, “Habitat Pittsburgh's collaborative partnership with the City of Pittsburgh is the catalyst for increasing an essential path to homeownership and economic stability for Veterans in need of quality affordable homeownership.”  Habitat Pittsburgh purchased several properties in Larimer for the Veterans Homeownership Initiative, and this is the second home that has been completed and will be sold to a veteran family in the neighborhood. This marks the 105th property completed as part of Habitat Pittsburgh’s premier Homeownership Program, which has included homes in Garfield, East Liberty, Homewood the Hill District and other municipalities throughout Allegheny County. More information about their programs is available here.About Habitat for Humanity of Greater PittsburghHabitat for Humanity of Greater Pittsburgh’s mission is to bring people together to build homes, communities, and hope in Allegheny County. Our vision is a world where everyone has a decent place to call home. We are a nonprofit affiliate of Habitat for Humanity International, which offers affordable homeownership and home repairs to families in need. Since 1986 we have assisted 105 families eliminate barriers to a better, healthier, more financially stable life through homeownership. | 31/3/2021 09:17:40 |
| Street Sweeping to Resume Without Parking Enforcement | PITTSBURGH, PA (March 31, 2021) Street sweeping is set to resume in the City of Pittsburgh tomorrow, April 1, but without the ticketing of parked vehicles. The City is suspending parking enforcement due to the large number of people still working from home during the pandemic, but the Department of Public Works urges residents to move their vehicles when possible on the designated street sweeping days in their neighborhoods to allow for crews to effectively maintain streets. The street sweeping period runs from April 1 - November 30. Signs in each neighborhood list which days street cleaning is performed. | 31/3/2021 15:38:07 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Wednesday, March 31, 2021 | Habitat for Humanity Ribbon CuttingTime: 10 a.m.Location: 132 Mayflower Street, Lincoln-LarimerCLP Downtown Ribbon CuttingTime: 1 p.m.Location: 612 Smithfield StreetEvent with President BidenTime: 3 p.m.Location: Carpenters Pittsburgh Training Center, 652 Ridge Road, Robinson | 31/3/2021 08:24:14 |
| City Breaks Ground for New State-of-the-Art DPW 4th Division Facility | PITTSBURGH, PA (April 1, 2021) Today the City of Pittsburgh broke ground for a new, state-of the-art Department of Public Works (DPW) facility in the Knoxville neighborhood. The new facility will replace the former DPW Division 4 building on the same site on Bausman Street.  The DPW Division 4 building was previously a bakery prior to the City acquiring it in 1971. The building housed DPW operations staff and equipment that primarily serviced Hilltop and southern neighborhoods. It was closed in 2017 after a structural engineering report found the facilities were unsafe for both workers and machinery. It was demolished in 2018. The new DPW facility will be built from the ground up for today’s modern workforce. It will be energy efficient and outfitted with current technology standards to support workers in their duties, allowing them to more easily plan and coordinate their work in conjunction with other DPW divisions and city departments. DPW intends to use the facility as a model standard for all DPW division buildings moving forward.  “We are pleased to be breaking ground on this brand new building for the 4th Division,” Mayor William Peduto said. “Providing public works services is one of the most important roles the city performs. This state-of-the-art facility will help our crews improve efficiency in delivering services for our residents while also providing a high quality workplace for our employees.” "This could not have happened without the support of Mayor Peduto and his unwavering commitment to delivering core city services to our southwest neighborhoods,” said Councilman Bruce Kraus.  "I am thrilled to work with my colleagues and the Mayor to bring forth the announcement of the re-building of our 4th Division Public Works facility,” said Councilman Anthony Coghill. “By re-opening this division, the city can assure that the hard working men and women of the 4th Division can provide coverage for our residents' basic needs in District 4. A special thanks to Chief of Staff Dan Gilman, Councilman Bruce Kraus and Councilwoman Theresa Kail-Smith for the unwavering support and efforts on behalf of the people of my district." Mayor Peduto and the City Councilmembers were joined today by Acting DPW Director Chris Hornstein and Supervisor Jeff Koch.The project is currently budgeted for $3.2 million in capital funding and construction is expected to begin in August. | 1/4/2021 11:14:37 |
| Landslide Remediation Beginning Near Cowley Park | PITTSBURGH, PA (April 1, 2021) Landslide remediation work will start as early as next week on a hillside by Cowley Park in Troy Hill. The work will correct a landslide behind the park by re-grading the slope and installing soil nail reinforcement along the slide area. “I am happy to see the Peduto Administration continue its investments in Cowley Park and in the growing Troy Hill neighborhood. This landslide work should keep the park and its amenities enjoyable for residents for years to come,” Councilman Bobby Wilson said. A $770,00 contract was awarded to Allison Park Contacting for the work. Including design, construction and inspection, the total investment by the Department of Mobility and Infrastructure is approximately $1.07 million. | 1/4/2021 10:08:06 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Thursday, April 1, 2021 | Groundbreaking for DPW 4th Division HeadquartersTime: 1 p.m.Location: 104 Mathews Avenue, KnoxvilleMSNBC Interview with Ayman MohyeldinTime: 3:30 p.m. | 1/4/2021 09:09:10 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Friday, April 2, 2021 | Good FridayCity Holiday | 2/4/2021 08:24:59 |
| Pittsburgh Land Bank Announces New Leadership | PITTSBURGH, PA (April 5, 2021) Pittsburgh Land Bank (PLB) Board Chair Councilman Rev. Ricky Burgess announced new leadership at the PLB March Regular Board Meeting..Diamonte Walker, in her position as Deputy Executive Director of the Urban Redevelopment Authority of Pittsburgh (URA), will assume the position of PLB Executive Director. At the meeting, Walker announced her resignation from the PLB Board. She was originally appointed to the Board in 2016 by Mayor William Peduto. This change in leadership comes as the URA is looking to take on a larger role with the PLB. The URA is actively working to integrate the PLB as one of its affiliate entities to be able to provide more staffing and expertise in order to become operational.Walker's bio is here.Additionally, the URA has hired Greg Miller as the URA’s new PLB Manager, who begins his new position today. Miller, originally from southwestern Pennsylvania, was previously a Senior Urban Designer at the New York City Department of City Planning. His bio is here.“I am honored to serve as the Executive Director of the Pittsburgh Land Bank as an extension of my role as the URA's Deputy Executive Director. The PLB Board and the URA will work cooperatively with City of Pittsburgh to create an equitable land use strategy that is right sized to enable neighborhood-scale, community-centered development," Walker said.“This will be a dynamic leadership team. Diamonte and Greg are going to help us get the PLB operational in 2021. I am excited and thankful to have the URA integrate the PLB as an affiliate entity. The PLB Board will still remain separate from the URA’s Board of Directors and will work closely with Ms. Walker and Mr. Miller to advance the PLB’s mission and goals,” said Councilman Rev. Burgess.About the Pittsburgh Land Bank (PLB)The PLB’s mission is to return unproductive Real Property to beneficial reuse through an equitable, transparent, and public process, revitalizing neighborhoods to strengthen the City’s tax base and support socially and economically diverse communities.(Photo: Diamonte Walker)( Photo: Greg Miller) | 5/4/2021 10:40:52 |
| City Launching Investigation and Clean-Up Efforts After Racist Graffiti Defaces South Side Slopes Field | PITTSBURGH, PA (April 5, 2021) City of Pittsburgh officials were made aware this afternoon that a concession stand in Quarry Field in the South Side Slopes was defaced with abhorrent racist graffiti, and will immediately launch a police investigation and cleanup efforts.Public Safety and police officials were dispatched to the park to conduct a criminal investigation into the matter, as well as crews from the Department of Public Works to immediately begin to clean or cover the graffiti."Disgusting and hateful actions like these have no place in our city and will not be tolerated. Law enforcement will work to identify and prosecute whoever did this to the fullest extent of the law," Mayor William Peduto said.City officials will also launch an effort to fund a full restoration of the defaced concession stand.Anyone who witnessed or has information on this crime is urged to call Pittsburgh Police at 412-323-7800. | 5/4/2021 16:10:57 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Monday, April 5, 2021 | No public events scheduled | 5/4/2021 08:25:49 |
| Free Mulch From Recycled Christmas Trees Available Starting Saturday | PITTSBURGH, PA (April 5, 2021) Pittsburgh residents are welcome to pick up free mulch from the City's Christmas Tree Recycling Program, starting this Saturday. This past holiday season, the City of Pittsburgh diverted more than 2,200 Christmas trees and 38 tons from the landfill over the course of one month. With the help of the Department of Public Works Environmental Services bureau and its Forestry Division, Pittsburgh residents took Christmas trees to five locations throughout the City for recycling. The trees were then chipped into mulch at the zoo drop-off location or composted by Wood Waste Recycling. In addition, organic material from the Forestry division, year round drop-off centers and bi-annual composting events will be made available to the public in the expanded month-long program as well.  Residents interested in picking up mulch for their spring gardens can do so at the locations listed below. Users must bring their own buckets, gloves, and shovels. In addition, face masks or coverings must be worn, and social distancing guidelines followed.  Dates: April 10th through May 10th (or until supplies last!) Locations below are open seven days a week, from 6:00 a.m. to 10:00 p.m.  - Riverview Park- Directly past the division salt dome building - Moore Park - Lower Moore parking lot - Sheraden Park - Take Surban St into the park, at first parking lot.  - The Zoo Overflow Parking Lot - 7370 Baker Street, Pittsburgh, PA 15206 parking area to the right. (pine mulch only) - Highland Park - Across from the dog park  Locations below are open Monday through Saturday, 8:00 a.m. to 2:00 p.m. - 5th Division of Public Works - 1330 Hassler St. Pittsburgh, PA 15220  (Off Herschel St. &amp; Steuben St. near Herschel Park)    - 2nd Division of Public Works - 6814 Hamilton Ave Pittsburgh, PA 15208 (North Dallas Ave. at Hamilton Ave.)   - 3rd Division of Public Works - 40 Melanchton St Pittsburgh, PA 15207 (Off 2nd Ave around the corner from the division gate on Dyke St) Pine mulch featured at the zoo location is great for vegetable gardens, blueberries, strawberry patches, tomatoes, and eradicating weeds. All other locations will feature a high grade triple-shred mulch that works well when planting new saplings, perennial gardens or young sprouts since the fine hardwood mulch adds vital nutrients to the growing plants. | 5/4/2021 09:38:25 |
| City of Pittsburgh Offering Free Pediatric First Aid, CPR and Fire Safety Certifications for Childcare Providers | PITTSBURGH, PA (April 6, 2021) Mayor William Peduto announced today that the City of Pittsburgh will host a free training program for childcare providers to receive state-required pediatric first aid, CPR and fire safety certifications. Biennial certifications are critical to ensuring the safety of children and staff, but can be expensive for childcare facilities who often operate with limited funding and resources. This free course helps to alleviate that cost for the city’s childcare facilities, while allowing them to maintain a high standard of safety.  “It can be very difficult and costly for childcare facilities to ensure that their staff members have access to high quality training opportunities. Our program aims to ensure that programs that need this vital training are able to get it and to keep the children in their care safe,” said Tiffini Simoneaux, Youth and Education Manager for the Office of Equity. Due to safety precautions, the program will be offered in a hybrid format with participants at two physical locations following strict COVID-19 protocols. Virtual video instruction by Pittsburgh paramedics and the Fire Prevention Officer will be broadcast live to training locations. University of Pittsburgh Student EMS monitors will be at each location to verify certifications for participants.  “Bystanders are often the first people on scene of a medical emergency. Providing first aid and CPR training to childcare providers will allow for high quality bystander care to be rendered prior to the arrival of emergency medical personnel and will improve patient outcomes. Pittsburgh EMS is proud to safely provide this training and encourages everyone to learn CPR,” Pittsburgh Bureau of EMS Assistant Chief Pinchalk said.   Fire Prevention Officer Lisa Epps-Cuda added that, “Fire safety is a necessary part of emergency preparedness and every family and business must have a fire safety plan in place. Childcare facilities are no exception. I am looking forward to sharing this information with childcare providers throughout the City of Pittsburgh to make sure that in the event of an emergency, these facilities know exactly what to do and how to stay safe.” Upon completion of this course, each participant will receive an American Heart Association Heartsaver Pediatric First Aid and CPR/AED certification, as well as a Fire Safety certificate at no cost.  The all-day training will be hosted by the Office of Equity, Bureau of EMS and Bureau of Fire in partnership with Trying Together and the Early Learning Resource Center Region 5. Trainings will be held on Saturday, April 10 at 10:00 a.m. Registration is required and space is limited. Childcare staff and early learning professionals who work or reside in the City of Pittsburgh are eligible to participate in this program and can sign up here. | 6/4/2021 11:47:20 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Tuesday, April 6, 2021 | 2021 NCAA Frozen Four Virtual Press ConferenceTime: 11 a.m. | 6/4/2021 08:51:58 |
| Pittsburgh Files Brief in Support of Philadelphia Challenge of State Gun Preemption Laws | PITTSBURGH, PA (April 6, 2021) Lawyers for the City of Pittsburgh and Everytown Law have filed a brief in support of the lawsuit Philadelphia filed last year challenging the Pennsylvania General Assembly for blocking cities from enforcing common sense gun safety policies. Pittsburgh and Everytown filed their amicus brief with Commonwealth Court yesterday.  Pittsburgh, the brief says, “is no stranger to the gun violence epidemic that plagues this Commonwealth’s cities. Pittsburgh is also— unfortunately—no stranger to ways in which the Pennsylvania General Assembly perpetuates the epidemic. Were it not for the General Assembly’s actions (and inaction), Pittsburgh’s residents, including individual Petitioners in this lawsuit, would be safer today.” The brief argues that due to the General Assembly preventing cities from enforcing their own gun safety laws city residents — particularly those of color — are regularly harmed by gun violence. Pittsburgh government itself is harmed when reasonable laws and regulations it approves to protect its residents are blocked by state laws. Everytown Law, the litigation arm of the Everytown for Gun Safety Support Fund, is leading the defense of gun safety laws the City of Pittsburgh approved in 2019 after the Tree of Life massacre. The case remains before Commonwealth Court. A copy of the brief filed yesterday is available here. | 6/4/2021 12:07:28 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Wednesday, April 7, 2021 | No public events scheduled | 7/4/2021 08:20:04 |
| Affordable Housing in East Hills Set for Renovations and Sale | PITTSBURGH, PA (April 8, 2021) More than 30 properties in East Hills will be stabilized under plans going before the board of the Urban Redevelopment Authority of Pittsburgh today in an agreement with Rising Tide Partners. Rising Tide plans to acquire and stabilize 30 vacant properties in the East Hills Park community, and acquire four occupied rental units and one vacant rental unit that will be renovated and sold as affordable housing to buyers between 50-60% Area Median Income (AMI) within five years. As the URA board agenda notes, the East Hills Park Revitalization Strategy Report released in December 2020 shows that more than 50% of the homes in East Hills Park require significant repairs. The report found that 32 of the 167 townhomes are vacant and only 37% are owner-occupied.  By implementing a revitalization strategy that acquires and stabilizes the most troubled units of East Hills Park and removes the nearly 700 liens that encumber the properties, the remaining units have increased likelihood of being sustained as naturally affordable owner-occupied housing and can continue to meet the needs of low-income homeowners. In support of the initiative the URA board is set to vote today on a $400,000 UDAG Program Income Fund (UPIF) Loan and a $81,000 Pittsburgh Housing Construction Fund Loan. | 8/4/2021 11:26:39 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Thursday, April 8, 2021 | Online Meeting with Senator Bob CaseyTime: Noon | 8/4/2021 08:14:30 |
| Governor Wolf Awards Funding to Big Tom's Barbershop in the Hill District | PITTSBURGH, PA (April 8, 2021) Governor Tom Wolf today awarded $500,000 for the rehabilitation of what will become Big Tom’s Barbershop and two affordable housing units in the Hill District, at the site of the iconic Hamm’s Barber Shop on Centre Avenue. Owner Thomas Boyd plans to relocate to the first floor of the rehabilitated Hamm’s structure, while the second and third floors will be renovated into 2 two-bedroom apartments, affordable at 50%-80% Area Median Income (AMI). The Governor’s funding — approved today by the Pennsylvania Housing Finance Agency — came from the sale of tax credits under the Mixed-Use Development Tax Credit Program, the proceeds of which are being used to fund the work of the Community Revitalization Fund Program. The overall project cost is $1.3 million, and the Governor’s $500,000 follows awards of $50,000 each from Neighborhood Allies and the Urban Redevelopment Authority of Pittsburgh.  The Big Tom’s project arose from a RFQ the URA released in July 2019 seeking multiple developers to purchase and redevelop any portion of 170 publicly owned parcels along the Centre Avenue Corridor in the Middle Hill neighborhood.  The goal of the RFQ was to select developers to work to implement uses and further concepts articulated by the community as described in the 2015 Centre Avenue Corridor Redevelopment and Design Plan and the 2011 Greater Hill District Master Plan.  “Big Tom’s vision is one that the City and the URA is seeking to repeat across the Hill District and other historically Black business districts, combining a reverence for community wishes and history, affordable residential components, and fostering economic empowerment through private and public partnerships,” Mayor William Peduto said. “I want to thank the Governor, the PHFA, URA, Neighborhood Allies and Big Tom for their work on this tremendous initiative.” | 8/4/2021 15:34:28 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Friday, April 9, 2021 | Bloomberg Harvard City Leadership Initiative InterviewTime: NoonGreen and Just Recovery in Canada: A Conversation with Leading Cities C40 EventTime: 2 p.m. | 9/4/2021 08:30:55 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Monday, April 12, 2021 | Lawrenceville Walking TourTime: 11 a.m.Meeting with Alicia CarberryTime: 2 p.m.Meeting with Age Friendly Greater PittsburghTime: 3 p.m. | 12/4/2021 08:26:28 |
| Spring Webinar Teaches Pittsburgh Residents to Recycle Right | PITTSBURGH, PA (April 12, 2021) In conjunction with the City of Pittsburgh’s blue recycling bin distribution program this Spring, residents can learn to RECYCLE RIGHT by taking part in a free online workshop through early May.The 30-minute webinar, presented by the Pennsylvania Resources Council, spotlights bin use as well as options for disposing of hard-to-recycle materials. Pittsburghers will learn how to prep and place recyclables in the blue bin and discover options for recycling electronics, chemicals, tires, yard debris and other materials.   “The City of Pittsburgh is now offering residents a method that makes it easy for people to create the habit of single-stream recycling, which allows residents to combine all recyclable materials in one container,” said Mayor William Peduto, “and education remains a key component of successfully transitioning to the bag-free collection system.”The webinars are in conjunction with several City efforts surrounding Earth Day 2021, which takes place next week.RECYCLE RIGHT webinars take place on the following dates:Wednesday, April 14, at 6:30 p.m.Tuesday, April 20, at 6:30 p.m.Saturday, April 24, at 10:30 a.m.Monday, May 3, at 6:30 p.m.Monday, May 10, at 6:30 p.m.A Spanish language webinar takes place on Wednesday, April 28, at 6:30 p.m.Residents can register for a free webinar session at www.pittsburghpa.gov/dpw/recycling-blue-bins.The City’s two-year campaign is providing 100,000+ blue recycling bins to all single family homes, duplexes and apartment buildings with five or fewer units.  Phase 2 launches in May 2021 to serve central and eastern neighborhoods.Learn more about the 2021 Blue Bin Rollout at www.pittsburghpa.gov, 311 City Response Center, Twitter @PGH311 and PGH.ST. | 12/4/2021 09:38:59 |
| City Releases 2021 Citywide Street Paving List | PITTSBURGH, PA (April 12, 2021) The City of Pittsburgh Department of Mobility and Infrastructure (DOMI) today announced the release of the first round of streets for asphalt pavement resurfacing for the 2021 paving season.  The list of streets to be repaved is available here.   This year the City is investing nearly $16 million in the street resurfacing program, which supports asphalt street resurfacing, ADA curb ramp upgrades on paved streets, and repair of concrete, brick and block stone streets throughout Pittsburgh.     Approximately 34 miles of streets will be resurfaced this year. Additional mileage will be resurfaced through cooperation agreements with local public utilities. Mechanical patching will improve many miles more by addressing particular trouble spots on otherwise acceptable street corridors.   The City expects to begin paving on April 18. While many residents are continuing to work from home, the City will be continuing extra efforts to notify residents to move their vehicles to enable street resurfacing to proceed. Streets scheduled for upcoming paving will be posted weekly on DOMI’s website and will be publicized through city social media channels. | 12/4/2021 10:08:47 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Tuesday, April 13, 2021 | Speaking at ICLEI Event: Equitably Shaping our Sustainable Urban Future Panel with Susan Aitken, Leader, Glasgow City Council, United Kingdom; Angie Fyfe, Executive Director, ICLEI USA; Lisa Helps, Mayor, City of Victoria, Canada; Katrin Stjernfeldt Jammeh, Mayor, City of Malmö, Sweden and ICLEI Global Executive Committee Member; Carolina Urrutia Vásquez, Environment Secretary, City of Bogotá, Colombia; and Vico Sotto, Mayor, Pasig City Government, Philippines.Time: 9:30 a.m. | 13/4/2021 08:30:51 |
| City Launches Spring Pothole Blitz | PITTSBURGH, PA (April 13, 2021) The City of Pittsburgh Department of Public Works is launching its Spring 2021 pothole blitz tomorrow and continuing through the rest of the week, weather permitting. DPW crews will be working 12-hour shifts patching potholes citywide from Wednesday through Friday, and may extend their work into Saturday. Residents may report potholes to the 311 Response Center by calling 311, 412-255-2621 or by filing an online 311 Request Form.  The blitz comes in advance of the City’s $16 million 2021 street resurfacing program, which launches next week. “We have made record investments into streets citywide the past several years, but after record snowfall this winter our roads still took a beating. Our crews will be doing their best to clear up any problem areas,” Mayor William Peduto said. | 13/4/2021 09:18:48 |
| REMINDER: Spring Yard Debris Collection Set For April 24 | PITTSBURGH, PA (April 21, 2021) Pittsburgh residents are encouraged to compost their leaves, grass, branches, and other yard debris on Saturday, April 24, 2021. Your participation in this program helps the environment by diverting valuable resources from the landfill.Yard waste must be left at the curb at your usual trash/recycling pick up spot before 6:00 a.m., following the simple guidelines below.Yard debris must be in brown paper bags and not weigh more than 35 pounds. Branches must be bundled with fiber twine or natural rope in branch lengths of 5 feet or less.Yard waste includes:- leaves- branches (4-inch diameter or less)- brush- grassYard waste should not contain any of the following materials:- plastic bags- metal or wire- rocks, blocks, bricks- dirt or gravel- glass, metal or plasticWhat to do with that yard waste year round? The City of Pittsburgh has three drop-off centers that accepts yard debris. Call each center for details and hours:East End Drop-Off Center (2nd Division) 6814 Hamilton Ave Pittsburgh, PA 15208 412-665-3609Hazelwood Drop-Off Center (3rd Division) 40 Melanchton St Pittsburgh, PA 15207 412-422-6524West End Drop-Off Center (5rd Division) 1330 Hassler St Pittsburgh, PA 15220 412-937-3054Yard waste that does not meet the collection guidelines will be left at the curb. More information and additional resources for yard debris disposal are available here. | 13/4/2021 09:47:02 |
| Pittsburgh Park Rangers Gear up for Earth Day Throughout the Month of April | PITTSBURGH, PA (April 13, 2021)  Earth Day has become a nationally recognized day to give back to Mother Earth, and this year it will be celebrated on April 22nd. “But Earth Day has really become more of an Earth Month with so many opportunities to engage with Pittsburgh communities and community groups to give back throughout the month of April,” said Jonathan Furman, Lead Park Ranger.Beginning Wednesday, April 14th, the City of Pittsburgh Park Rangers will team up with Citiparks for “Park Ranger Explorer Days” for an hour of fun-filled outdoor activities at the following Recreation Center locations:For Explorers (3rd through 5th Grade):Brookline Rec Center—Wednesday, April 14th, 2:30-3:30 p.m.Magee Rec Center—Wednesday, April 21st, 2:30-3:30 p.m.Phillips Rec Center—Wednesday, April 28th, 2:30-3:30 p.m.For Little Explorers (Pre-K/Early Elementary):Ormsby Rec Center:Friday, April 16th, 10-11 a.m.Friday, April 23rd, 10-11 a.m.Friday, April 30th, 10-11 a.m.In addition to this, Park Rangers will be doing a number of cleanups, tree plantings and community events throughout the spring and summer months. If you would like more information on how to get involved, please email parkrangers@pittsburghpa.gov | 13/4/2021 14:07:03 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Wednesday, April 14, 2021 | SportsPittsburgh Press ConferenceTime: 11 a.m.Location: Senator John Heinz History Center, Strip DistrictTroy Hill Community CouncilTime: 6 p,m.Speaking to Civic Leadership AcademyTime: 6:30 p.m. | 14/4/2021 08:26:03 |
| City and Teamsters Reach Agreement on New 5 Year Contract for Environmental Services and Animal Control Employees | PITTSBURGH, PA (April 14, 2021) Salary increases, longevity bonuses and new pathways to employment are being offered to Environmental Services and Animal Control workers under a new contract agreement between Teamsters Local 249 and the City of Pittsburgh. The union represents 143 Environmental Services refuse and recycling drivers and co-drivers, and 14 Animal Control employees. “As Pittsburgh residents were reminded over the last challenging year, Environmental Services and Animal Control workers are essential to the quality of life in our city. I want to thank them for their service and welcome others to apply for these jobs and join us in public service,” Mayor William Peduto said. The 5-year agreement covering 2021-2025 includes 3% raises in the final four years of the contract (first year salaries were subject to class and compensation analysis and title consolidation), and is the first union contract to add Juneteenth as a day off since Mayor William Peduto officially adopted it as a holiday in February.  In a new incentive to help recruit Environmental Services employees the new contract creates a new “loader” position that allows workers to join the bureau without having a driver’s license, which should be a benefit to those entering or re-entering the workforce. Previously all members of the unit had to have a license upon employment and obtain a Commercial Driver’s License (CDL) within six months of starting their jobs. For the first time, employees will now get longevity increases to their annual salaries (kicking in after the fifth year of employment) to reward those who remain longtime employees. The new contract also significantly raises the wages for CDL truck drivers and co-drivers in their first years of employment with the City by eliminating the tiered wage rates for years one through three of employment and starting all drivers and co-drivers at the top wage rate. These higher wages aim to boost recruitment, make Environmental Services jobs with the City more competitive, and improve services to City residents by filling vacant positions. Additionally, the new contract includes: - Paid Parental Leave - Paid Safe Leave - A revised bereavement leave policy to account for the restrictions in place due to COVID-19 that may prevent some employees from attending funerals for family members who have died. - Gender neutral pronouns (they/them/theirs) in the contract language in an effort to be more inclusive for all gender identities. | 14/4/2021 09:50:18 |
| Year Up Program to Offer Housing Authority Residents 6 Month Technical and Professional Skills Training, Followed by 6 Month Professional Internship | PITTSBURGH, PA (April 14, 2021) The Housing Authority of the City of Pittsburgh (HACP) is working to engage HACP residents and connect them with the nonprofit Year Up Pittsburgh (YUPGH), which aims to close the Opportunity Divide by ensuring that young adults gain the skills, experiences, and support that will empower them to reach their potential through careers and higher education.HACP Residents will be referred through the Authority’s Resident Employment Program directly to Year Up. The opportunity will be made available to HACP residents through a collaborative engagement process that kicked off in early March 2021 and has since begun its first cohort."We're working as hard as we can to connect young Pittsburgh residents with opportunities and careers, and YUPGH is another great model of the partnerships we need to make those efforts as successful and meaningful as possible," Mayor William Peduto said. "I want to thank the Housing Authority and Year Up for their commitment to Pittsburgh youth."Year Up Pittsburgh launched in March 2021 and will serve up to 40 students per cohort, with two cohorts per year. The YUPGH curriculum will provide students with a general foundation in workplace technology, business communications, and soft-skills training, and specialized training one of three tracks in preparation for their internship job assignment:- Cyber security- Web application development- Data analytics    “HACP strives to ensure that our residents are provided with opportunities to obtain the skills and experience needed to thrive in the modern workforce,” said HACP Executive Director Caster D. Binion. “It’s a comfort to know that our corporate partners think of HACP when they conduct their outreach and I’m confident that the opportunity provided through Year Up will place several of our residents on a path toward economic advancement.”The Year Up program will operate:- Initial six months beginning March 2021, Monday through Friday 9:00 a.m. – 4:00 p.m.; Wednesday, 9:00 a.m. – 12:00 p.m. - Second six months beginning September 2021, hours will transition to full days, Monday through Friday, 9:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m.“Young adults are facing tremendous challenges in securing a livable-wage job with upward mobility. Year Up Pittsburgh will connect young people in need of an opportunity with top companies that need of their talent, ensuring a more vibrant community and workforce,” said John Galante, Managing Director at Year Up.Students who enroll at Year Up Pittsburgh will first experience Year Up’s classroom-based training phase, which includes six months of technical and professional skills training. They will then participate in a full-time, six-month internship, where they can apply and enhance their technical and professional skills. Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, Year Up is conducting all information sessions, interviews, and onboarding activities virtually for the foreseeable future. For more information on Year Up Pittsburgh, visit: www.yearup.org. | 14/4/2021 12:15:21 |
| Allegheny Circle Two Way Conversion Project Begins Monday | PITTSBURGH, PA (April 15, 2021) The City of Pittsburgh’s Department of Mobility and Infrastructure (DOMI) is excited to announce that construction will begin for Phase 2 of the Allegheny Circle Two-Way Conversion Project on April 19, 2021. The project is expected to be completed by the end of 2021.“Allegheny Circle” consists of four streets (North, East, South, and West Commons) in the Allegheny Center neighborhood that functioned for years as a 4-lane one-way ring road. Phase 1 of the project, completed in 2018, reduced the travel lanes from 4 to 2 and added a bi-directional cycle track on the inside of the circle and parking on the outside. Phase 2 of the project will finish the transformation of the circle from a vehicle-centric street to a neighborhood-scale, multi-modal, pedestrian friendly street.The project will convert the street to two-way operations for vehicles, with one lane of traffic in each direction. The cycle track will be upgraded, and bicycle facilities will be extended to connect with existing facilities. The project will include upgrades to traffic signals, intersection modifications to improve safety for pedestrians and bicyclists, upgraded curb ramps, new pavement markings and signage, and other miscellaneous construction.Construction will generally occur during the week, Monday through Friday, during daylight hours. One lane of traffic along N, S, E, and W Commons will be maintained throughout the construction project. Detours will be implemented over the course of the project for East Ohio Street, North and South Federal Street, Ridge Avenue, Sandusky Street and Stockton Avenue. Advance notice will be given prior to detours being put in place.A section of Ridge Avenue and East Ohio Street at Allegheny Commons will be closed beginning April 19, 2021 until early July 2021 as part of the Allegheny Circle Phase 2 (City of Pittsburgh) project.The detour routes are as follows:East Ohio Street: Cedar Avenue to East North Avenue to North Federal StreetRidge Avenue: Arch Street to West North Avenue to North Federal StreetFor more information about the project please see the project fact sheet located here ( https://pittsburghpa.gov/domi/current-projects). If you have questions about this you may contact DOMI by email at patrick.bopp@pittsburghpa.gov, or by dialing 311 or 412-255-2621. | 15/4/2021 08:34:49 |
| Mayor William Peduto Signs Executive Order to Combat Construction Fraud and Promote Worker Safety | PITTSBURGH, PA (April 15, 2021) Following lengthy study by a construction industry tax force, Mayor William Peduto today signed an Executive Order to cut down on construction fraud, promote worker safety and protect City tax revenue. The Construction Fraud Executive Order will combat illicit efforts by fraudulent construction companies to commit tax, insurance, and workers’ compensation fraud to maximize their profits; use subcontractors or labor brokers to screen themselves from responsibility; pay workers in cash to avoid taxes; and decrease their labor costs.  Such moves allow the corrupt firms to outbid honest ones and fuel a cycle of lost wages, decreased tax revenue, and unsafe and hazardous work sites.  To combat that the Mayor and City Councilman Corey O’Connor created the labor-management Joint Task Force on Construction Industry Fraud in December 2018, which forwarded its final recommendations last month. Mayor Peduto signed the Order on April 15 — the traditional tax day* — alongside members of the Regional Council of Carpenters, which helped write the final report. “Fraud has a devastating impact on worker safety and tax revenue, and it takes experts working together to fully address it. I want to thank all of our partners on working together on this effort, which will reward legitimate construction firms, protect workers and protect the City’s bottom line,” the Mayor said. "The construction industry is the backbone of our region's middle class," said Councilman O'Connor. "The Joint Task Force's findings clearly show there are businesses operating in Pittsburgh that evade their tax obligations, undermine the work of law abiding businesses, and create unsafe working conditions. I applaud Mayor Peduto for taking swift action to safeguard our workers and tax dollars." “Mayor Peduto has taken the time to not just listen the recommendations of the Pittsburgh Joint Task Force on Construction Industry Tax Fraud but to take action, “ said William Sproule, Executive Secretary-Treasurer of the Eastern Atlantic States Regional Council of Carpenters. “Our union is proud of its participation and leadership in the task force and its goal to educate and advocate against wage theft, worker misclassification, and all forms of construction industry tax fraud. This is a step by the City of Pittsburgh to uphold workers’ rights, and create standards to help our industry work on a level playing field.” The Executive Order directs the City of Pittsburgh Departments of Permits, Licenses, and Inspections (PLI) and Finance to convene a committee with representatives of the Master Builders’ Association of Western Pennsylvania, NAIOP Pittsburgh, Builders Guild of Western Pennsylvania, the American Institute of Architects-Pittsburgh Chapter, Pittsburgh Building Trades, and the Chairperson of the City of Pittsburgh Joint Task Force on Construction Industry Fraud.  The committee will craft language to define the term “construction contractor” in the Pittsburgh City Code, to promote workers’ safety, combat construction industry fraud, uplift law-abiding and fair contractors, and create more accountable and transparent construction development processes.  Secondly, PLI  will list the names of all construction contractors on the City of Pittsburgh’s BuildingEye website, or a similar, publicly accessible website or web-based program, to enhance transparency and accountability, discourage the dishonest use of subcontractors to avoid paying taxes and commit fraud, and shine a light on companies that are involved in construction projects throughout Pittsburgh. A copy of the full Order is available here. (*Note: The City of Pittsburgh, the state and the federal government have pushed back tax day to May 17 due to the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic.) | 15/4/2021 08:56:10 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Thursday, April 15, 2021 | International Sister Cities Online ConferenceTime: 8 a.m.Presenting Proclamation to Center for Organ Recovery and Donation (CORE) and King Family for National Donate Life MonthTime: 10:30 a.m.Location: City-County Building PorticoSigning Construction Fraud Executive OrderTime: 11 a.m. | 15/4/2021 08:25:17 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Friday, April 16, 2021 | No public events scheduled | 16/4/2021 08:19:33 |
| Pittsburgh Street Paving and Milling Begins Next Week | PITTSBURGH, PA (April 16, 2021) The City of Pittsburgh Department of Mobility and Infrastructure (DOMI) is beginning its 2021 milling and paving program next week.This year the City is investing nearly $16 million in the street resurfacing program, which supports asphalt street resurfacing, ADA curb ramp upgrades on paved streets, and repair of concrete, brick and block stone streets throughout Pittsburgh.     Approximately 34 miles of streets will be resurfaced this year. Additional mileage will be resurfaced through cooperation agreements with local public utilities. Mechanical patching will improve many miles more by addressing particular trouble spots on otherwise acceptable street corridors.   Portions of the following streets are set for milling and/or paving next week: North St. Clair, Springer Way, Swan Way, Conewago Way, Kalamazoo Way, and Morningside Avenue.The full schedule for the week, including details on intersections, is available here.While many residents are continuing to work from home, the City will be continuing extra efforts to notify residents to move their vehicles to enable street resurfacing to proceed. Streets scheduled for resurfacing will be posted weekly on DOMI’s website and will be publicized through city social media channels. | 16/4/2021 08:45:13 |
| Community Asked for Input on Homewood Field and Park | PITTSBURGH, PA (April 16, 2021) Homewood community members are welcomed to provide their input Saturday afternoon on the ongoing plans to upgrade and expand Homewood Park.The Department of Public Works and its partners will host residents from 1-4 p.m. Saturday, April 17, at the corner of Hamilton and N. Lang Avenues to gather their insights on the project. Refreshments will be provided. (In case of inclement weather the gathering wil be moved to the Community Empowerment Association at 7120 Kelly Street.)Here is background on the redesign from DPW:In 2015, Homewood Community Sports (HCS), with the help of Heinz Endowments, Operation Better Block, Neighborhood Allies, Bridging the Gap Development, and The Mission Continues began a grassroots level study of field improvements at Willie Stargell Field. The study identified some of the challenges that the site faces with the existing conditions. Currently, the field serves both as a baseball and football field, however, the field is inadequately sized for both sports.HCS led an extensive community engagement process in order to develop a Master Plan for the existing Stargell Field and expansion of Homewood Park onto the previous Homewood School property along Hamilton Avenue.Based on the results of the Master Plan, the City of Pittsburgh's Department of Public Works, along with these essential community partners and the landscape architecture firm Studio Zewde, will be designing the following improvements:- Site engineering for the development of a combined, regulation-size football and baseball field, seating and site-wide ADA accessibility- Structural engineering for retaining walls surrounding the site- Relocation of existing pool and bathhouse/locker room to accommodate field renovations- Site-wide stormwater management solutions, including cisterns or r-tanks under the athletic fields- Connection to the Martin Luther King Jr. Busway and renovated pedestrian bridge to Westinghouse Park- Cultural/performance space with connections to the Afro American Music Institute- Playground and multi-purpose courts for various youth activitiesMore information on the redesign is available here. | 16/4/2021 09:19:12 |
| Semicir Street Reopens After $1.18 Million Stabilization Project | PITTSBURGH, PA (April 19, 2021) The City of Pittsburgh Department of Mobility and Infrastructure is pleased to announce the reopening of Semicir Street in the Observatory Hill neighborhood.  Semicir Street was closed in September 2020 for a $1.18 million landslide remediation and stabilization project. The work was completed by Mele &amp; Mele &amp; Sons, Inc. and Semicir Street is now open to all traffic.  More information about the project can be found here.  Before: After:  | 19/4/2021 11:04:50 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Monday, April 19, 2021 | Meeting with East Hills Consensus GroupTime: NoonLocation: 235 Eastgate Drive, East HillsPublic Safety Press ConferenceTime: 2 p.m.Location: Project Destiny, 2200 California Avenue | 19/4/2021 08:32:56 |
| Pittsburgh Releases Public EV Charging Strategic Plan for City Facilities | PITTSBURGH, PA (April 19, 2021) – In collaboration with the Bloomberg Philanthropies American Cities Climate Challenge and the Pittsburgh Parking Authority, the Department of City Planning has published an Electric Vehicle (EV) Charging Strategic Plan for Pittsburgh Public Facilities.This plan was created in response to the 2019 EV Taskforce Recommendations to create a framework for the City of Pittsburgh to leverage Pittsburgh Parking Authority lots and garages and other City facilities to expand EV charging access citywide. It provides a clear vision and targets for the City and its stakeholders, and outlines goals for expanding public EV charging access through 2025, which will help the City meet its goal of reducing greenhouse gas emissions from transportation by 50% by 2030.Today's announcement is one of many the City and Mayor William Peduto will be making in conjunction with Earth Day on April 22.Currently, the City has 35 existing public EV charging plugs, mostly serving Downtown and Oakland. By 2025, the Strategic Plan aims to expand to over 200 new public charging plugs and work with stakeholders to increase the total number of public charging plugs to over 2,000 across the City. This includes at least four plugs in each Council District and a goal to ensure every household is within a 10-minute walk of a public Level 2 charger or a 10-minute drive of a DC fast charger. Level 2 chargers take 6-8 hours to deliver a full charge, while DC fast chargers mimic more of a gas station model of fueling and charge a vehicle to 80% full within 20-30 minutes.“One key recommendation outlined by the plan is to determine a sustainable financing strategy,” said Principal Resilience Planner, Rebecca Kiernan. “This means establishing appropriate pricing structures for public chargers as well as a dedicated fund to cover operational costs that allows us to invest in new chargers throughout Pittsburgh.”An interdepartmental EV Task Force has been assembled to build out charging infrastructure for the City’s growing EV fleet, and will also lead the implementation of the Public EV Charging Strategic Plan.Pittsburgh is one of 25 cities selected to participate in the Bloomberg Philanthropies American Cities Climate Challenge, an effort to resource cities to take strong action to reduce pollution that contributes to climate change and impacts public health. As part of the Climate Challenge, Pittsburgh has pledged to take bold action to reduce emissions from its transportation and building sectors. Working with other Climate Challenge cities and cities around the world, Pittsburgh has explored approaches to increase access to low-carbon transportation options to give residents more choice, improve air quality and reduce greenhouse gas emissions.“Pittsburgh’s Public Facility EV Charging Strategic Plan is a great example of how cities across the country are paving the way for EV adoption and accelerating the transition to low-carbon transportation,” said Kelly Shultz, lead for sustainable cities and America Is All In at Bloomberg Philanthropies. “The Bloomberg Philanthropies American Cities Climate Challenge empowers local leaders to take bold and equitable climate action that improves lives for communities. We’re thrilled that Pittsburgh continues to drive us toward that goal.”A copy of the EV Strategic Charging Plan is available here.###For More Information:Audrey WellsCommunications Specialist, Department of City Planningaudrey.wells@pittsburghpa.gov412-255-2215Rebecca KiernanPrincipal Resilience Planner, Department of City Planningrebecca.kiernan@pittsburghpa.gov412-440-8733 | 19/4/2021 10:30:17 |
| Citiparks Launches Spring Outdoor Recreation Opportunities for Youth | PITTSBURGH, PA (April 19, 2021) The City of Pittsburgh Department of Parks and Recreation (Citiparks) is launching several spring youth recreation programs this week as part of the City’s Earth Day celebrations. Opportunities kicking off include: - New RECreate Program that provides outdoor recreation activities for youth of all ages at rec center locations throughout the city. A full list of activities and locations is available here and registration is required for some programs. All programs are hosted outdoors and weather permitting as rec center indoor facilities remain closed due to COVID-19.    - KidSMART Club @ Home is returning for a 6-week spring fling starting today, Monday, April 19. Activity kits focus on exploring science, math, art, reading and technology will be available first-come, first-serve at grab-n-go lunch distribution locations throughout the city. Locations and additional details are available here.    - Park Ranger Explorer Days are being hosted throughout the rest of the month for an hour of fun-filled outdoor activities. A list of events and locations is available here and registration is required.    - Citiparks Kids of Steel Running Club, in partnership with Citiparks and P3R, is a 6-week virtual running club that includes preparation for and free registration to P3R’s Kids Virtual Marathon or Tot Trot. Space is limited and registration is here.    - Citiparks Baseball is back with its first scheduled game this week as the Bronco League’s Northside take on Brentwood. The full season schedule is available here.    A list of opportunities is available on the Citiparks website and registration can be completed on Citiparks’ Eventbrite page. | 19/4/2021 12:28:45 |
| Statement by Mayor William Peduto on Guilty Verdict in the Murder of George Floyd | PITTSBURGH, PA (April 20, 2021) Mayor William Peduto released the following statement today on the murder trial and guilty verdict of former Minneapolis police officer Derek Chauvin:  “I was relieved to see that justice was served in the jury’s decision today finding Derek Chauvin guilty of all three charges in the horrific murder last year of George Floyd.  But I also realize that no verdict can bring back a life or eliminate the pain the Floyd family and so many Americans — especially in our Black community — continue to feel. We cannot erase centuries of systemic racism, and our efforts to uplift and support our minority neighbors must continue today and for years to come.” | 20/4/2021 17:19:10 |
| Mayor Peduto Signs Executive Order to Create a Building Deconstruction Policy | PITTSBURGH, PA (April 20, 2021) Today, Mayor William Peduto issued an Executive Order to create a unified, City-led deconstruction policy designed to remediate blight in city neighborhoods while diverting building materials from landfills, advancing climate action goals, promoting equity, and creating job training opportunities.  The policy aims to reduce blight in neighborhoods by deconstructing city-owned properties that are condemned but not yet slated for demolition. Deconstruction is the process of disassembling an entire building or parts of it rather than demolishing it. The goal is to recover, reuse, and recycle building materials like bricks, lumber, shingles, and tile that otherwise would have be sent to landfill, while safely disposing of hazardous materials.  “Data shows that living in proximity to blight can cause serious health issues for neighbors, and we also know that too many salvageable building materials languish in a landfill, which only harms our planet,” said Mayor Peduto. “Deconstruction will allow us to better remove blight from our neighborhoods, preserve assets from historic buildings, divert reusable materials from our over-burdened landfill, improve air quality, and create a pipeline for family-sustaining jobs.” The Executive Order calls for the City to create a process for identifying deconstruction-eligible structures that includes taking account of neighbor and community concern about the property, focusing on structures in historically Black business districts and low-income communities, and conducting a sustainability deconstruction assessment. The policy will pilot deconstruction on city-owned properties and city facilities, but will also create standards for recovery and recycling of materials for city-funded demolitions.  “Deconstruction represents yet another action that city government has taken to advance equity, achieve our climate goals, improve quality of life for our neighbors, and create well-paying jobs in the process,” said the City’s Chief Equity Officer Majestic Lane. “This policy will set a standard for other cities to follow.”  Additional directives for city departments in the Executive Order include the creation of robust community engagement plans to ensure neighbors understand the process and public benefits of deconstruction. It also calls for the convening of a Deconstruction Action Council comprised of members from various city departments, industries, and institutions to study and advocate for the expansion of the policy. “Deconstruction provides the City with a tool in its toolbox to remove blighted properties that have deteriorated beyond repair, but still contain materials that can be salvaged and diverted from the landfill,” said Sarah Kinter, Director of the Department of Permits, Licenses, and Inspections. "By taking apart a building rather than using traditional demolition we can reduce construction waste, continue to address environmental hazards, and promote the highest demolition standards.” "We applaud the City’s leadership to divert building material waste from landfill to productive reuse and recycling,” said Mike Gable, Executive Director of Construction Junction, community partners and local experts on the recovery, reuse and recycling of building materials. “We know from 22 years of experience in promoting the reuse of building materials that these efforts create more jobs than disposal and allow the public to make purchases that are better for the environment." Details on the policy and updates will be posted on the City’s Deconstruction website. The public is encouraged to take this survey to share ideas, interest, and feedback. | 20/4/2021 13:12:47 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Tuesday, April 20, 2021 | Signing City Deconstruction Executive OrderTime: 2:30 p.m.Gender Equity Commission MeetingTime: 4:00 p.m. | 20/4/2021 08:49:53 |
| Mayor Peduto Urges More Federal Support for Urban Forests | PITTSBURGH, PA (April 21, 2021) Mayor William Peduto delivered a letter to the White House today on behalf of 34 cities and counties across the US calling on more federal support for urban forests and their role in public health, equitable communities and economic vitality. Mayor Peduto issued the letter in conjunction with Trees for Urban Recovery, a consortium of cities, counties and community and conservation organizations seeking to advance a government-wide increase for urban and community forestry in the President’s budget and to start a dialogue on how it can further support urban and community trees. “As mayors committed to a better future for our cities, we thank you for advancing actions and policies that prioritize climate change and economic recovery with a strong focus on equity. As part of that commitment, we recognize the critical importance of city and community trees to economic vitality, public health, environmental justice, and effective climate action. Our urban and community forests are vital to combating climate change, creating good paying jobs, and building more equitable communities. For these nature-based solutions to flourish and for their much-needed economic and climate benefits to be realized by neighborhoods in greatest need, a decisive new approach is required. We write today to urge you to work with us to develop a robust whole-of-government partnership with the renewed federal resolve and increased Fiscal Year 2022 resources this effort will require to meet your recovery, climate, and equity goals in our jurisdictions,” the letter says.Mayor Peduto issued the letter as part of the City of Pittsburgh’s Earth Day commitments in 2021, which include efforts to increase electric vehicle charging stations, a new deconstruction initiative for the reuse of building materials, outdoor recreation opportunities for youth, and a new Executive Order on climate change that will be issued on Earth Day tomorrow. Others in Trees for Urban Recovery include American Forests, the Trust for Public Land, Urban Drawdown Initiative, and Davey Resource Group. The Urban Sustainability Directors Network is providing local government organizing support. | 21/4/2021 09:13:08 |
| Citiparks, Remake Learning and Allegheny County Library Association Win State STEM Grant | PITTSBURGH, PA (April 21, 2021) The City of Pittsburgh Department of Parks and Recreation, in partnership with the Remake Learning Network and Allegheny County Library Association, has been awarded a $500,000 PAsmart Grant to promote STEM programs for K-12 students. Citiparks will use its portion of the funding (approximately $90,000) to support upgrades to its Rec2Tech program at up to three City recreation centers. Governor Tom Wolf announced $10.8 million in PAsmart advancing grants that will be distributed to multiple partnerships across Pennsylvania to help support quality educational opportunities and experiences to K-12 students in computer science and STEM (science, technology, engineering, and math).  The Remake Learning-Library Association-Citiparks grant of $499,044 was for its program “From Incubator to Launch: Co-Creating a CS Ecosystem.” The program, according to the state, “develops a computer science ecosystem, connecting out-of-school providers with school-based providers, and leveraging libraries, city parks, and out of school time to build learners' skills and educator capacity in computer science.” Rec2Tech — an initiative introduced by Mayor William Peduto and led by Citiparks’ Digital Inclusion Coordinator Max Dennison — provides tech classes for youth to bridge the digital divide by providing free STEM instruction at City recreation centers. “This is a great opportunity to continue to build Rec2Tech as a regional leader in creating equitable access to high quality tech learning opportunities for youth,” said Kathryn Vargas, Citiparks Assistant Director, Community Recreation. The city’s portion of the grant will pay for furniture upgrades, procurement of tech-related equipment and hardware, and tech-related infrastructure. | 21/4/2021 10:54:29 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Wednesday, April 21, 2021 | Meeting with Pat Morosetti and John WatsonTime: 3 p.m.Black Pittsburgh Matters Forum Hosted by Councilmen Rev. Ricky Burgess and Daniel LavelleTime: 6 p.m.Location: Facebook | 21/4/2021 08:42:15 |
| $3.4 Million in State Grants Awarded to Transportation Improvement Projects in Pittsburgh | PITTSBURGH, PA (April 21, 2021) Eight transportation improvement projects in the City of Pittsburgh won $3.4 million in funding from the Multimodal Transportation Fund (MTF) today, Governor Tom Wolf announced. According to the Governor’s office, the MTF was established by Act 89 of 2013 to ensure the availability of safe and reliable transportation access in communities throughout the commonwealth. The program funds several types of improvement projects, including roads, walking and bike trails, rail, traffic safety, public transportation, and air transport.  Awards within the City of Pittsburgh included: - Penn Circle Two-Way Conversion Street Improvements, $300,000 - Allegheny Circle Streetscape Project, $553,392 - Irvine Street Sidewalk Upgrades, $200,000 - Lexington Park Public Improvements, $504,736 - Davis Avenue Pedestrian Bridge, $500,000 - 2400 East Carson Street Transportation Improvement Project, $100,149 - New Granada Square Infrastructure Improvements, $526,596 - Larimer-Homewood Multimodal Greenway Extension &amp; Hamilton Avenue/Larimer Pedestrian/Bike Bridge, $750,000 | 21/4/2021 15:42:51 |
| Mayor Peduto Issues Executive Order Committing Pittsburgh to Be Carbon Neutral by 2050 | PITTSBURGH, PA (April 22, 2021) Mayor William Peduto issued a sweeping Earth Day Executive Order today that builds upon Pittsburgh’s leadership in fighting climate change by committing the city to become fully carbon-neutral by 2050. The Order reviews concrete steps the Peduto Administration has taken the past seven years on climate change efforts and lays out the next moves City of Pittsburgh departments and authorities must make to further protect the environment. The centerpiece of the Order is Pittsburgh joining the ICLEI Local Governments for Sustainability Network, in which communities agree to reducing their greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and GHG avoidance to a net-zero emission level at the latest by 2050. Mayor Peduto has been one of Pittsburgh’s leading environmental voices across three decades in local government. He is the North American representative to the Global Covenant of Mayors for Climate and Energy, and in February joined international leaders including Special Presidential Envoy on Climate John Kerry, White House National Climate Advisor Gina McCarthy and UN Special Envoy for Climate Ambition and Solutions Mike Bloomberg to celebrate the United States rejoining the Paris Climate Agreement, among other accomplishments. “Climate change is a global issue but has severe local impacts on Pittsburgh residents, especially upon those in low-income communities who bear the brunt of negative impacts from rising temperatures, tainted air and water, and severe weather,” Mayor Peduto said. “The good news is we are taking serious steps to confront these issues and emerge from this crisis with a stronger economy and a better future for generations of Pittsburgh residents to come.” The Order celebrates the Administration’s successes and acknowledges the additional work to do to achieve its climate goals. Successes include: - Adopting Climate Action Plan 3.0, which includes goals on reducing energy usage and waste, building a fossil fuel fleet and reducing transportation emissions - Divesting its pension fund from companies that do not adhere to Environmental, Social and Governance guidelines  - Working with regional partners in the Western Pennsylvania Energy Consortium (WPEC) to purchase 100% renewable electricity for major facilities in City government and throughout Pittsburgh - Adopting a Net Zero Ready Building Ordinance to commit to constructing highly energy efficient municipal buildings (including the new Fourth Division Public Works Campus) - Distributing blue recycling bins to residents of all single-family homes and apartment buildings with fewer than five units to help achieve zero waste goals - Deploying electric vehicles and compressed natural gas vehicles and installing several charging stations at municipal facilities with plans to invest further in vehicles as part of a sustainable and cleaner municipal fleet - Becoming the second United States city to formally integrate the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals into municipal operations - Launching ForgingPGH, the City’s first citywide comprehensive planning process that will guide land use over the next twenty years  - Joining eight other Mayors from cities and towns in the Ohio River Valley and Upper Appalachia regions to issue the Marshall Plan for Middle America, which is a comprehensive strategy to lead a just transition from heavy industry to a more sustainable future, develop a strong workforce, and invest in the growing clean energy industries of tomorrow that will provide family-sustaining jobs for residents of our regions Going forward, the Order further requires: - All City Departments to implement climate impact scoring when crafting budgets and conduct a climate risk assessment for infrastructure investments and municipal operations - The Department of Public Works to issue a Request for Proposals to develop a comprehensive strategy to improve energy efficiency in all City facilities  - The Department of Mobility to issue a Request for Proposals to transition the City’s streetlights to LED and take into account Equity Indicators throughout the conversion project - The Departments of Public Works and Mobility and Infrastructure and the Office of Management and Budget or their designees to take necessary steps in collaboration with the Public Parking Authority of Pittsburgh to leverage public assets to provide additional electric vehicle charging stations and infrastructure that can be utilized by residents and visitors - The Departments of Mobility and Infrastructure and City Planning or their designees to continue to rapidly implement the Bike+ Plan, promote Transit-Oriented Development and Transportation Demand Management Strategies, and improve and expand mobility and transit options in a manner that takes into consideration climate adaptation of and climate migration to the Pittsburgh region  - Taking necessary actions to, whenever possible, replace retiring municipal vehicles with electric or other alternative fuel equivalents and procure renewable sources of fuel, in collaboration with the Equipment Leasing Authority and the Interdepartmental Electric Vehicle Task Force - Exploring the development of a publicly accessible dashboard to measure the City’s progress on sustainable and equitable procurement in accordance with climate and equity goals. - Studying the creation of a revolving energy efficiency fund through which the City’s  utility bill savings resulting from energy efficiency improvements are directed to capital spending for additional efficiency projects.  - Establishing an Energy Planning Delivery Unit to create and publicize guidelines for developers and builders to advance equity-focused greenhouse gas reduction and climate preparedness strategies in their projects.  - Integrating climate resilience and climate risk mitigation strategies in all neighborhood and comprehensive planning efforts.  - Convening a committee comprised of members of the Urban Redevelopment Authority, Housing Authority of the City of Pittsburgh, and Pittsburgh Water and Sewer Authority to create policies and programs that help low-to-moderate income residents reduce their utility burdens, perform home energy audits, finance energy efficiency improvements, and electrify and decarbonize their homes.  - Calling on the Housing Authority of the City of Pittsburgh, the Urban Redevelopment Authority of Pittsburgh, the Public Parking Authority of Pittsburgh, the Sports and Exhibition Authority, and the Pittsburgh Water and Sewer Authority to join the City in adopting Net Zero Ready Building Policies and climate-ready urban design guidelines.  The full Order is available here. | 22/4/2021 09:07:02 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Thursday, April 22, 2021 | Beth Shalom Solar Initiative DedicationTime: 11 a.m.Location: 5915 Beacon St., Squirrel HillNorthside Chamber of Commerce MeetingTime: 1 p.m. | 22/4/2021 08:16:43 |
| City Celebrates the Rebuilding and Reopening of the Lowrie Street Bridge in Troy Hill | PITTSBURGH, PA (April 23, 2021) The City of Pittsburgh Department of Mobility and Infrastructure (DOMI) has announced the reopening of the Lowrie Street Bridge over Rialto Street in Troy Hill. Mayor William Peduto will be joining the Troy Hill community and DOMI project team on Saturday to cut the ribbon on this $1.14 million project.  This project marks the second replacement of the Lowrie Street Bridge as the original stone abutments laid in 1900 were replaced in 1972 by a concrete structure. The bridge was fully closed to traffic in July 2020 to undergo a total rebuild due to its diminished capacity and the deterioration of its concrete beams.  The bridge superstructure was demolished and replaced between 4 residential homes and suspended over one of the steepest streets in the city. The project replaced the bridge beams, deck, sidewalks, railings and added safety enhancements for pedestrians and vehicles. While the new design has a similar look to the previous bridge, the team employed enhanced engineering technologies to ensure the bridge will serve the Troy Hill community for another 75+ years.   "Replacing the Lowrie Street Bridge is an essential infrastructure investment in Troy Hill,” said City Councilman Bobby Wilson. “After a $1.14 million construction project, I am thrilled the bridge will again be fully open to the public. I am very appreciative of the hard work of the Department of Mobility &amp; Infrastructure, Mayor Peduto’s Office and all the government partners that helped us reopen this bridge." "Troy Hill is excited to have Lowrie Street and Rialto Street open again after a substantial rebuild of the Lowrie Street Bridge,” said Abby Vanim, President of the Troy Hill Citizens community group. “As two of the main arteries in our neighborhood, Lowrie and Rialto provide essential access to our business district and for our neighbors and friends. Troy Hill Citizens appreciates our neighbors’ patience and understanding during this project. Thank you to the City and the project contractors, as they dealt with weather delays and issues related to the COVID-19 pandemic to get this completed. We look forward to celebrating the re-opening!”  The construction team was led by A. Merante Contracting, with SAI Consulting Engineers overseeing construction and conducting daily inspections. The team also coordinated with People’s and Pittsburgh Water and Sewer Authority, who have utility lines supported by the bridge.   Troy Hill Citizens will host a reopening community celebration with neighbors and city officials as they cut the ribbon on the bridge at 12:30 p.m. on Saturday, April 24.   BEFORE: View of the previous Lowrie Street Bridge from Below on Rialto Street AFTER: View of the newly constructed bridge from Lowrie Street  | 23/4/2021 09:23:01 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Friday, April 23, 2021 | O'Connor's Corner Ribbon CuttingTime: 12:00 p.m.Location: Philips and Murray Avenues, Squirrel Hill | 23/4/2021 08:38:53 |
| Milling and Paving Resume Monday | PITTSBURGH, PA (April 23, 2021) The City of Pittsburgh Department of Mobility and Infrastructure (DOMI) is continuing its 2021 milling and paving program next week.Most of the streets being resurfaced next week are in City Council District 7. The full schedule for the week, including details on streets and intersections, is available here.This year the City is investing nearly $16 million in the street resurfacing program, which supports asphalt street resurfacing, ADA curb ramp upgrades on paved streets, and repair of concrete, brick and block stone streets throughout Pittsburgh.     Approximately 34 miles of streets will be resurfaced this year. Additional mileage will be resurfaced through cooperation agreements with local public utilities. Mechanical patching will improve many miles more by addressing particular trouble spots on otherwise acceptable street corridors.   While many residents are continuing to work from home, the City will be continuing extra efforts to notify residents to move their vehicles to enable street resurfacing to proceed. Streets scheduled for resurfacing will be posted weekly on DOMI’s website and will be publicized through city social media channels. | 23/4/2021 15:09:31 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Monday, April 26, 2021 | Speaking at Osher Lifelong Learning InstituteTime: 11:00 a.m. | 26/4/2021 09:34:32 |
| City Launching Abandoned Vehicle Blitz | PITTSBURGH, PA (April 26, 2021) The City of Pittsburgh will launch a blitz on abandoned vehicles in city streets tomorrow, focusing first on Allentown and Beltzhoover and later spreading to other neighborhoods citywide. Residents are welcome to report abandoned vehicles to 311. Starting tomorrow the Bureau of Police will pull officers from all six police zones to work with traffic supervisors to blitz the two southern neighborhoods and tow every abandoned vehicle it can. Police will repeat the blitzes throughout the city in coming weeks and clear as many 311 complaints as possible. “Abandoned vehicles are a blight on neighborhoods and we’re making a special commitment of resources to address them. I urge residents to help police by letting us know of any such vehicles in their neighborhoods,” Mayor William Peduto said. Residents may report abandoned vehicles to the 311 Response Center by calling 311, 412-255-2621 or by filing an online 311 Request Form. | 25/4/2021 12:08:37 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Tuesday, April 27, 2021 | Meeting with Hello NeighborTime: 1 p.m. | 27/4/2021 08:16:54 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Wednesday, April 28, 2021 | Workers Memorial Day with Allegheny/Fayette Central Labor CouncilTime: NoonLocation: City-County Building Portico | 28/4/2021 09:06:20 |
| Mayor William Peduto Announces Historic Investments in OnePGH Plan | PITTSBURGH, PA (April 29, 2021) Mayor William Peduto today released the OnePGH plan, which addresses long-standing challenges facing Pittsburgh through a new partnership with city nonprofits, and by building upon existing partnerships with the city corporate community and its largest philanthropies.  “Now more than ever we know that to solve the massive needs facing our city we need the corporate community, foundations, nonprofits and government to work together. We also know that this model works, and will continue to deliver real help to Pittsburgh residents for generations to come,” Mayor Peduto said.  The Mayor’s announcement coincides with the release of the OnePGH prospectus and website, which identifies areas of focus for participating institutions, including affordable housing, the Office of Community Health and Safety, community engagement centers, workforce development, Rec2Tech, green infrastructure and parks. This partnership should result in at least $115 million in support of OnePGH initiatives over an expected five-year period. Some of this support will be in direct financial support of OnePGH, and other contributions will be made in the form of services and funding directed to other nonprofit partners to advance OnePGH initiatives.  The projected contributions from each institution over the course of the partnership are:  - UPMC will invest $40 million in a new affordable housing program and commit an additional $5 million per year to OnePGH initiatives to be determined each year (in addition to the $6.75 million for Project Cares) - Highmark Health will invest $5 million per year to focus in OnePGH initiatives related to Social Determinants of Health (SDOH), providing services to city residents to address social, economic and health care needs; Co-responder Model, leveraging resources to better meet community needs through housing, social services, public health and social work experts who can assist first responders; and Health Disparities, addressing the health care needs of underserved communities (in addition to the $6.75 million for Project Cares) - Carnegie Mellon University’s efforts in investment in community recreation and arts projects; expanded education outreach and entrepreneurship programming; including STEM and arts and humanities resources for K-12 students and educators; and administrative support of OnePGH are expected to total $4 million over five years - University of Pittsburgh’s efforts in community engagement centers; green infrastructure; programming for seniors at Citiparks Healthy Active Living Centers; and administrative support of OnePGH are expected to total $8 million over five years. The collaborative OnePGH model has already proved successful with Project Cares Pittsburgh, in which the corporate community, hospitals, government and philanthropy came together to support a new, $21 million homeless shelter Downtown. Soon to be finished, it will be the next OnePGH action item to be completed. This included contributions of $10 million from PNC Foundations as well as $6.75 million each from Highmark Health and UPMC.  Additionally, PNC Foundation, Citizens and F.N.B. have committed a combined $17 million to Invest PGH, the new Community Development Financial Institution from the Urban Redevelopment Authority of Pittsburgh that provides capital and technical assistance to small businesses and supports affordable housing. The CDFI is another OnePGH initiative. The city’s philanthropic partners also are supportive. The Heinz Endowments, Hillman Foundations, and Richard King Mellon Foundation previously agreed to look for opportunities to work with city government, corporate and nonprofit partners to strategically align their continued giving with OnePGH initiatives. (A chart on historical nonprofit giving is available here.) | 29/4/2021 13:05:22 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Thursday, April 29, 2021 | Speaking to Marshall Plan for Middle America SummitTime: 10:30 a.m.Evelyn D. Richardson Trailblazer AwardsTime: 6:30 p.m.Location: Fogo de Chao Steakhouse, 525 Smithfield St., Central Business District | 29/4/2021 09:07:03 |
| Milling and Paving Resume Monday | PITTSBURGH, PA (April 30, 2021) The City of Pittsburgh Department of Mobility and Infrastructure (DOMI) is continuing its 2021 milling and paving program next week.Streets being milled include:Perchment, Nimick, Hermitage, Harcor, Lynnbrook, Hermitage, N Murtland, Saxon Way, July Way, Oleatha Way, Isham Way, Limore Way, Tearose Way, Carver, Formosa Way, Viaduct Way, Cedarcove, Esther Way, Giboa Way, Huey Way, Highland Dr, Poketa, Bertram Way, Nice Way, Windfall Way and Marland Way.Streets being paved include:56th, Poe Way, Sawyer, Railroad, Crane, Cypress, S St Clair, S Millvale, Idaline, Glenbury, Groveland, Parklyn and Cypress. The full schedule for the week, including further details on streets and intersections, is available here.This year the City is investing nearly $16 million in the street resurfacing program, which supports asphalt street resurfacing, ADA curb ramp upgrades on paved streets, and repair of concrete, brick and block stone streets throughout Pittsburgh.     Approximately 34 miles of streets will be resurfaced this year. Additional mileage will be resurfaced through cooperation agreements with local public utilities. Mechanical patching will improve many miles more by addressing particular trouble spots on otherwise acceptable street corridors.   While many residents are continuing to work from home, the City will be continuing extra efforts to notify residents to move their vehicles to enable street resurfacing to proceed. Streets scheduled for resurfacing will be posted weekly on DOMI’s website and will be publicized through city social media channels. | 30/4/2021 09:13:30 |
| Glenbury Street Closure Announced | PITTSBURGH, PA (April 30, 2021)The City of Pittsburgh’s Department of Mobility and Infrastructure (DOMI) is announcing the closure of Glenbury Street in the Overbrook neighborhood to all traffic.Glenbury Street, between Saw Mill Run Road and Pinecastle Avenue, will close starting Monday, May 3, 2021, for one week, weather permitting, to perform drainage remediation work. The contractor is Baiano Construction, Inc.Posted detours will be:- Northbound – Saw Mill Run Boulevard to Nobles Lane to Colerain Street to Whited Street to Brookline Boulevard to Breining Street to Glenbury Street- Southbound – Brookline Boulevard to Whited Street to Saw Mill Run Boulevard to Glenbury Street- Access will be maintained to and from the South Busway entranceThank you for your cooperation during this time and we hope there will be only minor inconveniences. If you have any questions regarding this closure, please contact the City’s Response Center by dialing 311 or 412-255-2621. | 30/4/2021 08:44:00 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Friday, April 30, 2021 | Mellon Park Arboretum EventTiime: 10 a.m. | 30/4/2021 08:26:37 |
| City of Pittsburgh Celebrates Arbor Day and First City Park Arboretum | PITTSBURGH, PA (April 30, 2021) Today, Mayor William Peduto and the Department of Public Works Forestry Division are honoring Arbor Day by highlighting tree initiatives around the city and announcing that Mellon Park is the first city park to be certified as an arboretum.  Mellon Park has been awarded a Level I accreditation by the ArbNet Arboretum Accreditation Program and the Morton Arboretum, for achieving and maintaining nationally-recognized standards of professional practices important for arboreta and botanic gardens. Mellon Park is now also included in the Morton Register of Arboreta, a database of the world’s arboreta and gardens dedicated to woody plants.  “As City Forester, I am so proud to be part of this milestone,” said Lisa Ceoffe of the Department of Public Works. “The love for the trees across our city is rooted deeply. I am happy to be commemorating this event in Mellon Park on Arbor Day.” The arboretum certification initiative was a sought in partnership between Friends of Mellon Park, Tree Pittsburgh and the Forestry Division. Mayor Peduto and City Councilperson Erika Strassburger joined these community partners today to present City Council and mayoral proclamations in honor of Arbor Day and the new arboretum.  “The importance to our community of the beautiful trees in Mellon Park cannot be overestimated:  they are part of an exquisite designed landscape and they are vital to our urban ecosystem,” said Elizabeth Seamans of Friends of Mellon Park. “They provide pleasure to our community all year round – and will soon provide education as well. The attention and protections they are now receiving are a testament to the hard work of many people and Friends of Mellon Park are very grateful to everybody in the City of Pittsburgh who made this day possible." The Forestry Division has placed temporary informational banners on trees throughout Mellon Park for the community to learn more about the trees in the park. Park visitors are invited to use Forestry’s self-guided tour brochure, which Pittsburgh Park Rangers will be distributing near the Mellon Park Walled Garden on Saturday, May 1 from 10 a.m. to 12 p.m. A virtual tour of the arboretum is also available from Tree Pittsburgh. In addition to the new arboretum, the City of Pittsburgh is recognizing Arbor Day by highlighting additional tree initiatives, including: - Pittsburgh’s Tree City USA Certification flag through the National Arbor Day Foundation is waving over the city from Mount Washington for the 16th year. - The Shade Tree Commission has announced the city’s first ever Heritage Tree Registry Program in partnership with Tree Pittsburgh.  - Duquesne Light Company and Forestry will be planting 15 trees later today in Highland Park. - Community partners, including Tree Pittsburgh, Western Pennsylvania Conservancy, Pittsburgh Parks Conservancy, Friends of the Riverfront and more have planted over 1,000 trees to date in 2021 in city parks, trails and streets, with more planned throughout the spring, summer and fall citywide.  - Tonight, the City-County Building will be lit up green for Arbor Day and World Parks Week.  Additional tree initiatives can be found on the City of Pittsburgh Shade Tree Commission’s website and the Forestry Division website. | 30/4/2021 08:34:30 |
| City and URA Announce Opening of $6.5 Million Liberty Green Community Park in Larimer | PITTSBURGH, PA (May 1, 2021) The City of Pittsburgh cut the ribbon today at Liberty Green park, the city’s newest super-playground and largest play area for multiple age groups. The $6.5 million park development project is located on 3.2 acres of park space in the Larimer neighborhood.  Construction began on the park in 2019 after an extensive multi-year community-led process. The Larimer community has long advocated for a system of recreation and open spaces that reflect the community’s commitment to green sustainable development and investment for current and future families. The park is surrounded by mixed-income housing recently developed as part of Choice Neighborhood Initiative in the Larimer and East Liberty neighborhoods.  The features in the park reflect community values and include:  - 14,500 square feet of play space for age groups spanning from toddlers to pre-teens along a feature plaza, assembly space, open lawn, play mounds and playground equipment, including wheelchair accessible equipment - Innovative green infrastructure stormwater management designed to manage approximately 4 million gallons of water from the park and surrounding streets annually - 82 newly planted trees - The River Roots community-driven art component that includes an elders’ circle and story stone engraving, chadar ceramic well quilt, sound sculptures and clay water creatures designed by neighborhood children and brought to life by artist and sculptor Alisha Wormsley. Installation of River Roots is anticipated to finish by fall 2021.  Mayor William Peduto joined the Larimer Consensus Group, Kingsley Association, East Liberty Development, Inc., Cornerstone Village residents and additional community members to celebrate the opening of the park. The project was a collaboration of several partners including City Councilman Reverend Ricky Burgess, Urban Redevelopment Authority (URA), Housing Authority, Pittsburgh Water and Sewer Authority, Pittsburgh Parks Conservancy, Allegheny County Sanitary Authority, Wallace, Roberts and Todd LLC, Evolve EA, Tedesco Construction Company and Alisha Wormsley. Additional funders include the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development, Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, ArtPlace America, Colcom Foundation, Heinz Endowments, McCune Foundation, Richard King Mellon Foundation.  Additional information about the project and its history are available on the URA’s website. | 1/5/2021 13:27:56 |
| City Housing Authority Chosen for Housing Choice Demonstration Project | PITTSBURGH, PA (May 3, 2021) The Housing Authority of the City of Pittsburgh is one of nine public housing authorities chosen by the Department of Housing and Urban Development to pilot a new Housing Choice Voucher (HCV) Mobility Demonstration. Through the program, the agencies will provide over 10,000 families with children nationwide better access to low-poverty neighborhoods with high-performing schools and other strong community resources. The lead agency for the demonstration in the Pittsburgh area is the Allegheny County Housing Authority. Through the partnership with ACHA the city Housing Authority will receive 18 vouchers valued at nearly $250,000. According to HUD: “The Demonstration builds upon recent research that shows growing up in neighborhoods with lower levels of poverty improves children's academic achievement and long-term chances of success and reduces intergenerational poverty. Children who move to low-poverty neighborhoods have also been shown to experience lower rates of hospitalizations, lower hospital spending, and some changes in mental health over the long-term follow-up. Adults given the chance to move to low-poverty neighborhoods experience reductions in obesity and diabetes.” More information is available here. | 3/5/2021 14:50:32 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Monday, May 3, 2021 | Faces of Free Expression ProjectTime: 10 a.m.Location: United Steelerworkers Lobby, 60 Boulevard of the Allies, Central Business District | 3/5/2021 08:23:19 |
| City to Track Gun Data with Assistance from Everytown Grant | PITTSBURGH, PA (May 3, 2021) Mayor William Peduto and the Department of Public Safety will expand the City's tracking of gun data with funding from Everytown Support Fund, the education, research, and litigation arm of Everytown for Gun Safety, the largest gun violence prevention organization in the country. Legislation being introduced to City Council tomorrow would accept $200,000 from Everytown to support the hiring of a Gun Violence Data Fellow dedicated to collecting, organizing, analyzing, and interpreting information related to gun violence including homicides, aggravated assaults, shots fired, gun arrests, and officer-involved shootings.Public Safety's current Gun Violence Data dashboard is available here, and other data resources are available here. | 3/5/2021 11:38:13 |
| New Police Bureau Website Tracks Implementation of Recommendations by Mayor Peduto's Community Task Force on Police Reform | PITTSBURGH, PA (May 3, 2021) The Pittsburgh Bureau of Police launched a new website today to track the implementation of changes recommended by Mayor William Peduto’s Community Task Force on Police Reform. The site is broken down into task force recommended actions, steps the Police Bureau has already taken, steps the Bureau plans to take, and the anticipated timeline for completing the actions. An accompanying page hyperlinks to Public Safety related datasets, dashboards and annual report links for the public. Mayor Peduto named the Community Task Force on Police Reform in June, and it released its final report in October. Their independently produced recommendations included focus areas on Eliminating Racial Disparities; Officer Wellness; Reimagining Policing; Recruitment, Training, Education and Hiring; Relations with Pittsburgh’s Fraternal Order of Police; Transparency and Accountability; Use of Force Changes Needed to Pittsburgh Bureau of Police Policy; and Use of Tear Gas, Rubber Bullets, “Flash-Bang” Devices and Other Less Lethal Methods of Crowd Control. The website launched today will provide transparency on the implementation of the task force recommendations and be updated as actions are completed. It was overseen by Shatara Murphy, assistant Public Safety director for Community Affairs, and the department’s Office of Community Services and Violence Prevention. | 3/5/2021 11:25:39 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Tuesday, May 4, 2021 | No public events scheduled. | 4/5/2021 08:26:30 |
| Wenzell Avenue at Carnahan Road Reopens with Upgrades and Improvements | PITTSBURGH, PA (May 4, 2021) The City of Pittsburgh Department of Mobility and Infrastructure (DOMI), Mayor William Peduto and City Council President Theresa Kail-Smith have announced the reopening of Wenzell Avenue at Carnahan Road in the Banksville neighborhood following a $4.6 million improvement project at the intersection.  The project included extensive improvements including a bridge replacement on Carnahan, upgrade and replacement of the traffic signal, widening the intersection to install turn lanes, street resurfacing, drainage improvements, new sidewalks, curb ramps and street markings. The improvements are designed to increase safety and traffic flow at the intersection.  “This was a big project and I’d like to thank all of our partners who made it possible including Mayor Peduto, Chief of Staff Dan Gilman and the DOMI team for investing in these important improvements for the safety of all who use this intersection,” said City Council President Theresa Kail-Smith. “I’d also like to recognize and thank Congressman Mike Doyle, Senator Wayne Fontana and State Representative Dan Deasy for helping us to acquire the funding. I want to especially thank the community for their partnership and patience during construction.” The project was managed by DOMI’s Project Design and Delivery Bureau under Chief Engineer Eric Setzler and Project Manager Patrick Bopp and was funded in part by PennDOT and the Federal Highway Administration. Design work was performed by GAI Consultants, construction was completed by Allison Park Contractors and the construction inspection team was CDM Smith.  Before:After:  | 4/5/2021 11:31:29 |
| Pittsburgh Wins State Grant for EMS Diesel Exhaust System Project | PITTSBURGH, PA (May 5, 2021) The City of Pittsburgh has won a state grant to supplement its placement of diesel exhaust removal systems in Emergency Medical Services stations.  The City announced plans in October to retrofit EMS stations with exhaust systems that expel diesel fumes from the vehicles to the outside while the vehicles are running inside the station, to make for a safer breathing environments for EMS staff.   The latest grant in support of the project is for $10,000 from the Pennsylvania Office of the State Fire Commissioner's Fire Company and Emergency Medical Service Grant Program. It will fund electrical upgrades at the stations that will allow the new exhaust systems to be installed. The diesel exhaust systems are planned for Rescue 01: 4 systems; Medic 14: 3 systems; Medic 10: 3 systems; Medic 08: 1 system; Medic 06: 4 systems; Medic 04: 4 systems; Medic 03: 2 systems;  Medic 02: 4 systems; Medic 01 and 11 (located in the same station): 2 systems; Headquarters: 7 systems; EMS Training: 6 systems. | 5/5/2021 09:16:52 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Wednesday, May 5, 2021 | Meeting with Hello NeighborTime: 11 a.m | 5/5/2021 08:59:17 |
| Partial Closure of Fort Duquesne Boulevard Announced | PITTSBURGH, PA (May 5, 2021) The City of Pittsburgh’s Department of Mobility and Infrastructure (DOMI) is announcing a partial closure of Fort Duquesne Boulevard, starting Monday, to allow for the Pittsburgh Downtown Partnership to host various events and activities to boost business in the Central Business District:The closure will be of the Fort Duquesne Boulevard westbound lane from Stanwix Street to 7th Street. These closure will be in place for approximately five months starting May 10, 2021 through October 7, 2021. The westbound detour is as follows: 7th Street to Penn Avenue to Stanwix Street.Thank you for your cooperation during this time and we hope there will be only minor inconveniences. If you have any questions regarding this closure, please contact the City’s Response Center by dialing 311 or 412-255-2621. | 5/5/2021 16:21:16 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Thursday, May 6, 2021 | Press Conference with US Transportation Secretary Pete ButtigiegTime: 12:15 p.m.Location: Top of Mon Incline, Grandview Avenue at Shiloh Street, Mount Washington | 6/5/2021 08:48:27 |
| Milling and Paving Resume Monday | PITTSBURGH, PA (May 7, 2021) The City of Pittsburgh Department of Mobility and Infrastructure (DOMI) is continuing its 2021 milling and paving program next week.Streets being milled include:Nimick Pl, Perchment, Hermitage, Saxon Way, Carver, N Murtland, Larimer Ave, Harvard Sq, N Fairmount, N Lang Ave, Lincoln Ave, Sterrett , Lark Way, McPherson Blvd, Alora Way, Dexter, Hollywood.Streets being paved include:Cypress, S St. Clair, Groveland, Parklyn, Glenbury, Harcor Dr, Fisk, 40th, Blackberry Way, Service Way, 56th, Poe Way, Sawyer, Canoe Way, Woolslayer Way, Saxon Way, Carver, Hermitage, N Murtland, Larimer Ave, Harvard Sq.The full schedule for the week, including further details on streets and intersections, is available here.This year the City is investing nearly $16 million in the street resurfacing program, which supports asphalt street resurfacing, ADA curb ramp upgrades on paved streets, and repair of concrete, brick and block stone streets throughout Pittsburgh.     Approximately 34 miles of streets will be resurfaced this year. Additional mileage will be resurfaced through cooperation agreements with local public utilities. Mechanical patching will improve many miles more by addressing particular trouble spots on otherwise acceptable street corridors.   While many residents are continuing to work from home, the City will be continuing extra efforts to notify residents to move their vehicles to enable street resurfacing to proceed. Streets scheduled for resurfacing will be posted weekly on DOMI’s website and will be publicized through city social media channels.This press release was updated at 4:34 PM on 5/8/2021 for streets to be milled and paved the week of 5/10/2021. | 7/5/2021 10:45:58 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Friday, May 7, 2021 | No public events scheduled | 7/5/2021 08:24:33 |
| Pittsburgh Parking Authority Adds Convenience to On-Street and Neighborhood Lot Parking Locations | PITTSBURGH, PA (May 7, 2021) The Public Parking Authority of Pittsburgh is announcing that it has partnered with leading parking solution suppliers to add more convenience at on-street and neighborhood lot parking locations. Three different mobile apps will be available to pay for parking time, expanding the touchless payment options, and giving users more choices.The Flowbird mobile app and the Meter Feeder app are being added as payment options, giving additional mobile app choices along with the Go Mobile PGH app powered by Parkmobile. The Go Mobile PGH app has been available to parkers in Pittsburgh since 2016, and its success has demonstrated the popularity of using a mobile app to pay for parking.All three apps can be downloaded from the App Store for iOS and the Google Play Store for Android, and provide a wide array of convenient features. Most important, users can pay for parking right from their mobile devices, receive text notifications when time is about to expire, and they can extend their time without running out to a meter.“We feel that is very important to give our parkers as many convenient ways to find and pay for parking as possible to remain in compliance with parking regulations,” said David Onorato, Executive Director of the Pittsburgh Parking Authority. “There are several popular mobile applications on the market today and we want people to have a choice in which app they prefer to use.”The Parking Authority continues to offer payments by credit card or coin at over 1,000 parking kiosks throughout the Downtown area for non-app users.The new mobile applications will be available this Spring. Authority personnel will be installing new decals on all of the parking kiosks to let parkers know about the available apps. More information can be found on the Authority’s website at www.pittsburghparking.com. | 6/5/2021 13:40:16 |
| Allegheny Circle Phase 2 Construction Sequence Update | PITTSBURGH, PA (May 7, 2021) The City of Pittsburgh’s Department of Mobility and Infrastructure (DOMI) advises that we will not be implementing detours at this time on East Ohio Street and Ridge Avenue as previously indicated. This decision was made to minimize the impact to nearby residents and businesses coinciding with the adjacent West Ohio Street project which is still impacting nearby roadways. We will provide proper advance notification as to when the detours will be implemented later in the construction project.There will be construction activities starting on Monday, May 10, 2021 as follows:· There will be traffic restrictions along Allegheny Commons at South Commons, Sandusky Street, East Commons and North Commons to allow for the contractor to remove existing islands at each intersection.· Work will begin along the inside sidewalks at each intersection around Allegheny Commons that will include ADA ramp construction and traffic signal work. This will result in signals being deenergized and the intersections being in a STOP condition for all traffic movements. There will be temporary ADA ramps constructed outside the work limits at each intersection as the work progresses.Although there will be restrictions, traffic will be maintained while work is completed. Please be aware of flaggers and adhere to changing traffic pattern for motorists, bicycles, and pedestrians.Hours of construction will generally occur during the week, Monday through Friday, 9:00 a.m. to 3:00 p.m. One lane of traffic along North, South, East, and West Commons will be maintained throughout the construction project. Detours will be implemented over the course of the project for East Ohio Street, North and South Federal Street, Ridge Avenue, Sandusky Street and Stockton Avenue. Advance notice will be given prior to detours being put in place.The purpose of the project is the conversion of Allegheny Commons (North, South, East and West Commons Streets) from one way to bidirectional traffic with bicycle lanes.For more information about this project please see the project fact sheet located here. If you have questions about this project, contact the DOMI Construction Project Manager, Patrick Bopp by email at patrick.bopp@pittsburghpa.gov or by calling 311 or 412-255-2621. | 7/5/2021 08:19:51 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Monday, May 10, 2021 | No public events scheduled. | 10/5/2021 08:38:15 |
| URA Announces Free Housing Legal Services for City of Pittsburgh Renters and Homeowners | PITTSBURGH, PA (May 10, 2021) The Urban Redevelopment Authority of Pittsburgh (URA) announced today that the Housing Opportunity Fund’s (HOF) Legal Assistance Program (LAP) is officially up and running just in time to meet the legal needs of City residents as the national eviction moratorium is set to expire in June 2021. The $1 million program is expected to serve over 1,300 households.   LAP is the first legal assistance program in the City of Pittsburgh to offer a slate of five different free legal services to income-qualifying households. The services include:   Tenant Services- Mediation: Third party trained mediators facilitate a resolution between landlord and tenant issues.   - Limited Legal Consultation: Attorneys provide limited and brief legal advice related to tenant issues and provide information on options, rights and responsibilities.  - Full Legal Representation: Attorneys provide representation through court proceedings to help prevent evictions and stabilize housing.   Homeowner Services- Tangled Title: Legal assistance to help transfer the home’s record title to the current occupant.  - Foreclosure Prevention: Assistance to help prevent foreclosure by helping to explore options such as repayment plans, forbearance and deferrals, mortgage modifications, refinancing and/or bankruptcy.    “Access to housing is a basic human right, and for too many Pittsburghers during this pandemic the threat of losing homes has been a constant worry, especially for those with low incomes. The City and URA are doing all they can to provide tenants and homeowners with the protections they need to provide their families shelter,” Mayor William Peduto said. At the April 2021 URA Board meeting, five agencies were approved to serve as the providers for the Legal Assistance Program. The firms are:  - Community Justice Project (Coordinated entry; legal services for undocumented residents)  - Neighborhood Legal Services (Limited legal consultation; Full legal representation; Tangled title; Foreclosure prevention)  - Just Mediation Pittsburgh (Mediation services)  - Morant Law (Tangled title)  - Ebony Law (Limited legal consultation; Full legal representation)  The Legal Assistance Program was funded out of the Housing Opportunity Fund 2021 Annual Allocation Plan. The guidelines were approved in March 2021 after a robust community input process gathering feedback on program design from nearly a dozen groups operating in the housing and legal assistance environment in Pittsburgh.   “We set out to make a comprehensive legal assistance program that serves both tenants and homeowners,” said URA Deputy Executive Director Diamonte Walker. “We’ve incorporated systems to make it easier to obtain financial assistance to help resolve the housing issue - whether that is rent assistance, mortgage payments or financing to help landlords fix up their units. We are also excited to bring mediation services into the mix as this has been a proven method to resolve issues between landlords and tenants, prevent eviction filings, and stabilize households often without involving the courts.”  The program is utilizing RentHelpPGH and the Pittsburgh Hispanic Development Corporation (PHDC) to serve as coordinated entry for this program, because they have been providing a similar service throughout the COVID-19 pandemic. Additionally, $43,000 of funding is specifically earmarked to serve residents who may be undocumented or otherwise ineligible from receiving services from other legal assistance providers.   Walker continued, “It was imperative to ensure that the program was diverse - in services and staff. This slate of services ensures that we meet the housing legal needs of our residents, regardless of where they are in resolving their problem. We also ensured that we had diverse providers offering the services.” To be eligible, renters must have total household income at or below 50% Area Median Income (AMI) and homeowners must have total household income at or below 80% AMI. Participants must be a City of Pittsburgh resident. The legal need must be related to housing stability.   For a Legal Assistance Program referral, please call: 412-534-6600For non-English speakers, call: 412-530-5244 | 10/5/2021 09:58:13 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Tuesday, May 11, 2021 | Pittsburgh Musical Theater Ribbon-CuttingTime: 11 a.m.Location: 327 S. Main St., West End | 11/5/2021 08:15:58 |
| Pittsburgh My Brother's Keeper Announces Community Violence Prevention Mini-Grant Program | PITTSBURGH, PA (May 11, 2021) The City of Pittsburgh’s My Brother’s Keeper (MBK) initiative has announced a new violence prevention and intervention mini-grant program for community organizations focused on reducing violence and peacemaking efforts throughout the city.  The mini-grant program is offering up to $3,000 in funding to organizations that support neighborhood-centric violence prevention, intervention and street outreach activity that communities have called for and in response to a recent surge in violence.  “We know that there are many community partners working in the violence reduction and prevention space in Pittsburgh,” said Chief Equity Officer Majestic Lane. “The City’s Office of Equity, MBK and Group Violence Intervention team work closely with these groups because they are critical community-based resources throughout our city. We also know that up to $3,000 can go a long way to uplift and further their initiatives and activities that make a difference for our neighborhoods.”  “A public health approach, Group Violence Intervention work and trained street outreach have been effective in reducing violence and building peace,” said Josiah Gilliam, My Brother's Keeper Coordinator. “It's our hope to support activities, programs and other opportunities at the community level while also better connecting and highlighting these efforts in the hopes to save lives and improve outcomes.” MBK will fund the mini-grants with support from the Heinz Endowments. Applications are available online until May 31 and will be managed and processed by the POISE Foundation. Applicants are required to have 501(c)(3) status or a fiscal sponsor to apply. | 11/5/2021 09:45:41 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Wednesday, May 12, 2021 | Public Safety River Rescue Boat Launch CeremonyTime: 11 a.m.Location: River Rescue Dock, North Shore | 12/5/2021 08:49:45 |
| City of Pittsburgh Gathering Community Input on 2022 Capital and Operating Budgets | PITTSBURGH, PA (May 13, 2021) The Office of Mayor William Peduto, the Office of Management and Budget, and the Office of Community Affairs invite residents to share their input on the City of Pittsburgh’s 2022 Capital and Operating Budgets through virtual forums, surveys, and online budgeting tools.  Residents are encouraged to learn about and engage with the 2022 City of Pittsburgh Budgets in the following ways:  - Watch the Budget Engagement Kick-Off video, which explains the differences between Capital and Operating Budgets and provides an overview of the entire budget process.  - Attend and participate in 2022 Capital Budget Forums held via Zoom and broadcast live to YouTube. There will be three virtual Capital Budget Forums focusing on different types of capital projects held with department leaders so that residents can learn more about department priorities, submit feedback, and ask questions. The Capital Budget Forums will be held:    - Tuesday, June 1 at 6:00 p.m. - Mobility Projects   - Wednesday, June 2 at 6:00 p.m. - Recreation and Facilities Projects  - Tuesday, June 8 at 6:00 p.m. - Community &amp; Economic Development Projects- Attend and participate in the 2022 Operating Budget Forum on Wednesday, June 9 at 6:00 p.m. held via Zoom and broadcast live via YouTube. Staff from the Office of Management and Budget will discuss the 2022 Operating Budget and residents can ask questions and submit feedback. - Complete the 2022 Capital Budget Survey here through June 18, 2021. As part of the 2022 Capital Budget Survey, residents can utilize a new online tool to place markers on a map to highlight desired capital projects in their communities.  - Complete the 2022 Operating Budget Survey here through July 11, 2021. - Submit an ideal 2022 Capital Budget through the City’s Balancing Act Tool.- Residents can also view a tax receipt to track how their tax dollars are spent here. Residents who wish to attend and participate in the Capital and Operating Budget Forums via Zoom must register in advance here. Individuals who do not wish to participate in the meetings can watch the Forums live or after the fact on City Channel Pittsburgh’s YouTube channel. All surveys, meeting registration links, recordings of meeting videos, helpful links, and other tools related to the 2022 Capital and Operating Budget engagement process will be hosted on a centralized page within the City’s EngagePGH platform here.  “In order to ensure an equitable and sustainable recovery from the COVID-19 pandemic, it is critical that we take into account the voices of Pittsburgh residents. The 2022 Budget engagement process will empower residents to lend their voice to their city government and inform investment in their communities,” said Mayor Peduto.  All community input that is received through the survey and virtual sessions is processed by the Office of Management and Budget and distributed to appropriate department leaders, City Council offices, and Mayor’s Office for consideration when creating their budget requests.  Residents who do not have digital access or who require language access can call 311 to complete the survey over the phone. Accessibility accommodations are available upon request by emailing ADA Coordinator Hillary Roman at hillary.roman@pittsburghpa.gov. Language and translation accommodations are available upon request by emailing cala@pittsburghpa.gov. ASL interpreters will be available during all virtual Capital and Operating Budget Forums.  Questions regarding the Operating and Capital Budgets can be directed to OMBoperating@pittsburghpa.gov and cip@pittsburghpa.gov, respectively. | 13/5/2021 13:37:12 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Thursday, May 13, 2021 | No public events scheduled | 13/5/2021 08:41:30 |
| Milling and Paving Resume Monday | PITTSBURGH, PA (May 14, 2021) The City of Pittsburgh Department of Mobility and Infrastructure (DOMI) is continuing its 2021 milling and paving program next week.Streets being milled include:McPherson Blvd, Card Lane, Osage Lane, Tearose Way, Limore Way, Viaduct Way, Cedarcove St, Esther Way, Giboa Way, Huey Way, Walnut St, Coleridge Place, Coleridge St, Oranmore St, Windfall Way, Marland Way, Midwood Way, Lipton Way, Bertram Way, Schenley Manor Dr, Greenwood St, McCandless Ave, 45th St.Streets being paved include:Hermitage St, N Murtland St, Canoe Way, Woolslayer Way, Idaline St, Saxon Way, Carver St, Perchment St, Nimick Pl, Sterrett St, Harvard Square, N Fairmount St, Walnut St, Lincoln Ave, Formosa Ave, Tearose Way, Limore Way, Viaduct Way, Cedarcove St, Esther Way, McPherson Blvd, N Murtland St, N Lang Ave, Coleridge Place, Coleridge St, Schenley Manor Dr, Oranmore St, Giboa Way, Huey Way, Windfall Way, Marland Way, Bertram Way, Greenwood St, McCandless Ave. The full schedule for the week, including further details on streets and intersections, is available here.This year the City is investing nearly $16 million in the street resurfacing program, which supports asphalt street resurfacing, ADA curb ramp upgrades on paved streets, and repair of concrete, brick and block stone streets throughout Pittsburgh.     Approximately 34 miles of streets will be resurfaced this year. Additional mileage will be resurfaced through cooperation agreements with local public utilities. Mechanical patching will improve many miles more by addressing particular trouble spots on otherwise acceptable street corridors.   While many residents are continuing to work from home, the City will be continuing extra efforts to notify residents to move their vehicles to enable street resurfacing to proceed. Streets scheduled for resurfacing will be posted weekly on DOMI’s website and will be publicized through city social media channels. | 14/5/2021 09:51:23 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Friday, May 14, 2021 | No public events scheduled. | 14/5/2021 08:49:26 |
| Glenbury Street in Overbrook Reopens After Draining Remediation | PITTSBURGH, PA (May 14, 2021) The City of Pittsburgh’s Department of Mobility and Infrastructure (DOMI) is pleased to announce the completion of drainage remediation work on Glenbury Street in the Overbrook neighborhood.The street, long plagued by flooding problems, is complete and fully open to all traffic.DOMI thanks residents for their cooperation and patience. If you have any questions regarding this work, please contact the City’s Response Center by dialing 311 or 412-255-2621.( Photo: DOMI) | 14/5/2021 14:30:01 |
| Pittsburgh Wins State Environmental Grant for New Electric Vehicles, Including First Electric Bucket Truck | PITTSBURGH, PA (May 14, 2021) The City of Pittsburgh won a $160,000 state grant to purchase nine new vehicles for its electric vehicle fleet — including its first all-electric bucket truck for the Forestry Division — to continue implementing Peduto Administration actions to improve air quality and reduce greenhouse gas emissions. The award from the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection’s Alternative Fuels Incentive Grants (AFIG) program will allow the City to purchase eight Chevy Bolts for the Departments of Mobility and Infrastructure and Permits, Licenses and Inspections and the truck for the Public Works Forestry crews. The grant complements work DPW is working on to install new electric vehicle charging stations in the Second Avenue parking lot Downtown using two other state grants: $135,000 from an AFIG grant in 2019, and a $189,403 Pennsylvaia Energy Development Authority Restart Grant in 2020. In announcing the latest grants on Thursday the PADEP said: “The AFIG Program funds projects that replace older gasoline- or diesel-fueled vehicles with cleaner fuel vehicles to reduce emissions of carbon monoxide, particulate matter, volatile organic compounds, nitrogen oxides, and carbon dioxide, a principal greenhouse gas. The program supports electric, ethanol, biodiesel, compressed natural gas (CNG), propane gas, and other cleaner fuel vehicles. It also supports installation of fueling stations for these vehicles.” More information about the Peduto Administration’s climate and carbon mitigation actions — including its EV Task Force Recommendations and its EV Charging Strategic Plan — is available here at the Sustainability and Resilience webpage. | 14/5/2021 09:51:04 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Monday, May 17, 2021 | No public events scheduled. | 17/5/2021 08:36:01 |
| Mayor Peduto Announces City To Host Traditional July 4 Fireworks at Point State Park | PITTSBURGH, PA (May 17, 2021) The City of Pittsburgh is pleased to announce it will hold an Independence Day celebration with fireworks at the Point on July 4, and waive block party fees for neighborhood parties that day. Other announcements on summertime public events, including the resumption of the Richard S. Caliguiri City of Pittsburgh Great Race, are also forthcoming. Today Mayor William Peduto announced a family-style picnic will be held the evening of July 4 at the traditional Point State Park location with patriotic music and food vendors provided from 6 to 10 p.m. Fireworks will begin at twilight. “It’s time to get together and celebrate our life and independence – together,” Mayor Peduto said. “After a year of suffering there is no better way to do that than joining our neighbors for the most Pittsburgh of all things, which of course is a giant fireworks display.” Pittsburghers are also welcome to celebrate with neighborhood block parties, in which single blocks of residential streets can be blocked off with two city-provided barricades. Block parties allow for exemptions from noise ordinances, though it must be stressed that setting off fireworks within the City limits is prohibited by law. Block party permits are still required but the regular $25 fees will be waived. The permits must be submitted by June 23. (Online permit applications can be filed here, and information on block party policies is available here.) Registration for the 2021 Richard S. Caliguiri City of Pittsburgh Great Race and Dollar Bank Junior Great Race will open next week. One GREAT Weekend will take place September 25-26. More details will be available soon. Further announcements on City of Pittsburgh summertime resources and activities — including the reopening of swimming pools, Cinema in the Parks and musical performances — will also be made soon. | 17/5/2021 09:41:50 |
| Dr. Sheila Roth Joins City of Pittsburgh Office of Community Health and Safety as Continuum of Support Program Manager | PITTSBURGH, PA (May 17, 2021) Dr. Sheila Roth, PhD, LCSW, EMT, who is the Director of Carlow University’s Masters of Social Work program, is joining the City’s Office of Community Health and Safety as the Continuum of Support Program Manager. Dr. Roth will oversee the social work and support professionals working in the community and work with local partners and Public Safety to evaluate national best practices in co-response, crisis prevention, and post-engagement care as part of the Public Safety continuum. Dr. Roth will collaborate directly with the community, providers, and Public Safety professionals to strengthen the continuum of support in the city with a focus on ensuring that the “right responder” works with residents.   "We are pleased to announce that Dr. Roth is joining the Office of Community Health and Safety team,” said Mayor William Peduto. “She has an impressive and longstanding record for her local leadership in social work and commitment to community health, safety and equity throughout the city of Pittsburgh. Dr. Roth understands the needs of our communities, our social workers, and our first responders to help create a more effective continuum of support for our residents.” Dr. Roth began her career as a hospital-based social worker and has 35 years of experience working in the health and mental health care fields. She was a founding member of Carlow University’s Bachelors of Social Work Program in 1993 and co-developer of Carlow’s Master’s of Social Work (MSW) Program in 2018. Dr. Roth will remain the Director of the MSW program at Carlow, and will build partnerships with academic partners, local students, and professionals to provide community support.  “We’re honored to have Dr. Roth serve our city in this role,” said Carlow University President Suzanne Mellon, PhD. “It is such a vital time for Pittsburgh to pursue equity, something we’ve long focused on at Carlow. We look forward to Dr. Roth's strong leadership in this role and how this partnership opportunity will further our collective equity efforts.”  Dr. Roth also brings to this new role 30 years of experience in behavioral health practice at the University of Pittsburgh’s Center for Emergency Medicine. Dr. Roth is a behavioral health member of the Allegheny County/City of Pittsburgh Critical Incident Stress Management team, a guest instructor in the Pittsburgh Bureau of Police’s Academy, and a certified EMT with 5 years of volunteer work with a local EMS service. | 17/5/2021 10:48:58 |
| Love Your Block Mini Grant Applications Now Open | PITTSBURGH, PA (May 18, 2021) The City of Pittsburgh is excited to announce applications are now open for Love Your Block. Love Your Block is a City of Pittsburgh mini-grant program that brings neighbors together to improve our communities by combating blight, creating assets, and building resilience — block-by-block.   Nonprofit organizations across Pittsburgh are invited to propose projects for up to $1,500 in funds and the support of key city departments. Funding supports volunteer-fueled neighborhood improvement projects for Spring and Summer 2021.   Projects may include but are not limited to: community garden maintenance, neighborhood clean-ups, or tree and flower planting. Successful projects will build strong partnerships, leverage donations, and most importantly, engage neighbors.   You can find more information and apply for Love Your Block at engage.pittsburghpa.gov/loveyourblock2021. Applications are due by June 14, 2021.  Questions can be directed to Leah Friedman at leah.friedman@pittsburghpa.gov or Eric Williams at eric.williams@pittsburghpa.gov or by calling the Office of Community Affairs at 412-255-4773.  Stay up to date with Love Your Block and all Office of Community Affairs’ programs at newsletter.pittsburghpa.gov. | 18/5/2021 09:56:02 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Tuesday, May 18, 2021 | No public events scheduled | 18/5/2021 07:58:34 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Wednesday, May 19, 2021 | No public events scheduled. | 19/5/2021 03:04:40 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Thursday, May 20, 2021 | No public events scheduled | 20/5/2021 08:45:45 |
| Pittsburgh Announces Artists Selected for 2021 Art in Parks Program | PITTSBURGH, PA (May 21, 2021) –  The City of Pittsburgh’s Department of City Planning Public Art and Civic Design (PACD) division has selected eight local, national, and international artists and artist teams for the 2021 expansion of the Art in Parks program. Each artist has been selected to create high-impact permanent public art installations in the five Allegheny Regional Asset District (RAD) parks: Emerald View, Highland, Schenley, Frick, and Riverview.This program expansion was made possible by a RADical ImPAct Grant, launched in celebration of the RAD’s 25th anniversary. Each funded installation will be bold, forward-looking, creative projects that will have a radical impact on the region."The Art in Parks project is exactly the type of idea the RAD Board envisioned when we launched the RADical ImPAct grant program," said Dusty Elias Kirk, RAD Board Chair. "We wanted our regional assets to dream big about shaping the future of our creative landscape and this project does just that. Having large-scale works of art in our public parks will not only enhance our region's quality of place, but it will also give our communities the opportunity to engage with art in accessible, everyday ways. We are excited about the dynamic group of artists the City has selected and we look forward to seeing their work come to life in our RAD parks.”The selected artists will collaborate with the City on site selection, design, and installation. Community engagement will be a critical component of design development. Final concepts will be reviewed and approved by the Art Commission. Sequencing and implementation of each project will be staggered, depending on project complexity and weather constraints, beginning this summer, and wrapping up in late spring 2022, with the project close out anticipated in June 2022.“This expansion of our Art in Parks program provides an incredible opportunity for Pittsburgh to build upon our existing public art landscape,” said Mayor William Peduto. “We are excited to work with such a diverse group of artists that represent a variety of perspectives and discover how they will use the Art in Parks program to strengthen our communities, add vibrancy to our parks, and humanize our built environment.”See below to learn more about the artists who will be working in each park:Emerald View ParkAli Ruffner &amp; Ruby Perkins – A Pennsylvania native, Ali Ruffner strives to uphold, expose, and respond with joy to the culture of a place by spending time collecting stories in the community. She’s traditionally trained in sculpture, large scale installations, public art, film, and painting. Ruffner’s collaborator Ruby Perkins is a student at the Tyler School of Art in Philadelphia, PA with a background in painting. As a community-minded artist, she uses her artwork to push for community action. Together, they plan to create an installation that will safely connect neighbors across the space. OOA Designs – OOA Designs is a Pittsburgh-based, woman-owned and operated artist collaboration between founders Oreen Cohen and Alison Zapata, established in 2018. They create aesthetic and functional public art that embraces color, forms and nature within their collaborative work. Their art also strives to tell the stories of the community and have meaning to those who see it every day, and they look forward to continuing to share the stories of their City. Highland ParkMarlana Adele Vassar – Marlana Adele Vassar is a Pittsburgh artist exploring ways to share her art that will enhance the City. She has 15 years of experience across a variety of mediums and her current focus is on creating distinctive public art with a balance of style and substance. Her artistic philosophy is “art is everywhere, and the ordinary has the potential to be extraordinary.” The Urban Conga – Based in Brooklyn, NY, The Urban Conga is a multidisciplinary design studio made up of a diverse group of architects, engineers, fabricators, artists and more. Their work is focused on sparking community activity and social interaction through open-ended play. They create inclusive, engaging and site-specific works that spark creativity, exploration and free-choice learning within the built environment. Schenley ParkGinger Brooks Takahashi – With almost 20 years of experience, Ginger Brooks Takahashi is a local artist, well known for her concept-driven work. Her work explores how we might creatively co-exist in our surroundings. She has experience across many mediums with a variety of materials and strives to create installations that fit into their environment using available resources to communicate the value and concepts of her artwork.  Suphitsara Buttra-Coleman – Suphitsara Buttra-Coleman is a spontaneous realism artist who specializes in portraiture with acrylic paint. As a mural artist, she creates pieces that reflect on people within their communities and in society. She plans to create a piece that inspires the Pittsburgh community and also provides them with a safe space within the park.  Frick ParkHutabut LLC – Matthew Geller, of Hutabut LLC, uses everyday materials in the outdoor environment to create object-based, site-specific artworks that are integrated with their site. His works incorporates strong visuals and dynamic elements that can be activated by people as well as changes to ambient light and weather. This approach allows Geller to surprise and delight while fostering a sense of community around an unlikely object or site. Riverview ParkSans  façon and Steve Gurysh – As a collective, Sans façon shares a commitment to sustained, artistic research and conversation with landscapes, infrastructure, places, and communities in order to create responsive, layered, and experiential artworks. Sans façon (Tristan Surtees and Charles Blanc), a twenty-year collaborative team currently based in Calgary, Canada, and their collaborator Steve Gurysh, an artist and a ten-year-long resident of Pittsburgh,  are interested in creating a public work that allows people to engage and connect with embedded histories and also changes how we look at, understand, and interact with a landscape. ###For More Information:Audrey WellsCommunications Specialist, Department of City Planningaudrey.wells@pittsburghpa.gov412-255-2215Sarah MinnaertPACD Manager, Department of City Planningsarah.minnaert@pittsburghpa.gov412-389-8015 | 21/5/2021 08:55:22 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Friday, May 21, 2021 | No public events scheduled | 21/5/2021 08:50:29 |
| Milling and Paving Resume Monday | PITTSBURGH, PA (May 21, 2021) The City of Pittsburgh Department of Mobility and Infrastructure (DOMI) is continuing its 2021 milling and paving program next week.Streets being milled include:Greenwood, McCandless Ave, Larimer Ave, Harvard Sq, Windfall Way, Marland Way, Lipton Way, Bertram Way, Shady Ave, Fahnestock, Nimick Pl, Herron Ave. Streets being paved include:N Lang Ave, N Murtland, Osage Lane, Card Lane, Tearose Way, Limore Way, Viaduct Way, Isham Way, Lark Way, Oranmore, Greenwood, Cedarcove, Esther Way, Giboa Way, Huey Way, McCandless Ave, Larimer Ave, Harvard Square, Windfall Way, Marland Way, Shady Ave, Midwood Way, Lipton Way, Bertram Way. The full schedule for the week, including further details on streets and intersections, is available here.This year the City is investing nearly $16 million in the street resurfacing program, which supports asphalt street resurfacing, ADA curb ramp upgrades on paved streets, and repair of concrete, brick and block stone streets throughout Pittsburgh.     Approximately 34 miles of streets will be resurfaced this year. Additional mileage will be resurfaced through cooperation agreements with local public utilities. Mechanical patching will improve many miles more by addressing particular trouble spots on otherwise acceptable street corridors.   While many residents are continuing to work from home, the City will be continuing extra efforts to notify residents to move their vehicles to enable street resurfacing to proceed. Streets scheduled for resurfacing will be posted weekly on DOMI’s website and will be publicized through city social media channels. | 21/5/2021 12:25:47 |
| City of Pittsburgh Safe Routes to School Program Announces Youth Bike Safety Day on June 12 | PITTSBURGH, PA (May 24, 2021) The City of Pittsburgh Department of Mobility and Infrastructure’s (DOMI) Safe Routes to School Program has announced a Youth Bike Safety event to provide children and families knowledge about bicycle safety as youth participate in activities this summer. The event will be held on June 12, 2021 from 11 a.m. to 2 p.m. at the Bud Harris Cycling Track on Washington Boulevard.  “Our young people deserve to have safe and equitable ways to access their important places like school, summer activities and parks,” said Mayor William Peduto. “Thanks to Safe Routes to School and our community partners, our children will have the education and tools to get where they need to go safely.”  The Youth Bike Safety event will include safety demonstrations, helmet giveaways, bicycle activities and information about City of Pittsburgh and other youth summer programs. The event is being hosted by DOMI’s Safe Routes to School program in partnership with the Pittsburgh Bureau of Police Civil Affairs Unit, Department of Parks and Recreation, Pennsylvania Department of Transportation, Move Forward PGH, Bike PGH, Healthy Ride, Saving Icarus, UPMC Children’s Hospital of Pittsburgh and Venture Outdoors. DOMI’s Safe Routes to School program seeks to increase the number of students biking and walking to school and summer activities through education, encouragement and safety improvements to create healthy communities by providing safer walking, bicycling and riding routes to schools. They do this work by engaging with community members and organizations, educating school-aged children in safe walking and biking practices and providing engineering improvements around schools such as crosswalks, signage and sidewalks.   | 24/5/2021 13:42:29 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Monday, May 24, 2021 | Media InterviewsTime: 9 a.m. - NoonLocation: Mayor's Office | 24/5/2021 08:58:35 |
| Strip District Recycling Drop Off to Close During Paving Work | PITTSBURGH, PA (May 24, 20121) The Department of Public Works Environmental Services Bureau is announcing that its recycling drop-off dumpsters in the Strip District will close for three days later this week while adjacent portions of Railroad Street are repaved.The dumpsters will be closed from Wednesday-Friday, May 26-28, at their location at 31st and Railroad Streets. In the meantime residents may drop off recycable materials at the locations listed here: https://pittsburghpa.gov/dpw/drop-off | 24/5/2021 10:53:57 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Tuesday, May 25, 2021 | No public events scheduled | 25/5/2021 07:57:43 |
| McArdle Roadway in Mount Washington To Close for Two Weeks For Bridge Maintenance | PITTSBURGH, PA (May 25, 2021) The City of Pittsburgh’s Department of Mobility and Infrastructure (DOMI) will be closing McArdle Roadway in the Mount Washington neighborhood from the Liberty Bridge to Grandview Avenue to perform routine maintenance on the McArdle Roadway bridge over Sycamore Street.The section of McArdle Roadway will close Monday, June 7, 2021, and is projected to reopen June 20, 2021.The work will be focused on the deck joints at either end of the bridge. Proper maintenance of these joints is essential to preserve the condition of the bridge’s beams and foundation. When the work is completed, the steel plate that has been on the roadway since the bridge expansion joint was damaged will finally be removed. This project has a budgeted cost of $192,500.Signage for detours will be posted and will utilize the Liberty Tunnel, Saw Mill Run Boulevard, Woodruff Street, and Merrimac Street.Thank you for your cooperation during this time and we hope there will be only minor inconveniences. If you are interested in further information regarding this project and others, please call 311 or 412-255-2621. | 25/5/2021 10:30:07 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Wednesday, May 26, 2021 | No public events scheduled | 26/5/2021 08:31:42 |
| City Offices Closed and Refuse Collection Suspended in Observance of Memorial Day | PITTSBURGH, PA (May 26, 2021) City of Pittsburgh offices will be closed and refuse collection will be suspended on Monday, May 31, in observance of Memorial Day.  Food distribution by the Department of Parks and Recreation will be suspended as well, though extra meals are being issued to seniors Friday in advance of the holiday.  There will be no refuse, bulk waste or recycling collection on Monday and collection will be pushed back one day for the rest of the week. If your scheduled day of collection is Monday, you will be serviced Tuesday, June 1;  those usually serviced Tuesday will be serviced Wednesday; and so on through the week.   The following is the holiday schedule for Parks and Recreation facilities: HEALTHY ACTIVE LIVING CENTERS (Senior Centers)CLOSEDThe Grab ‘n Go Meal Schedule will accommodate seniors with extra meals on Friday, May 28, 2021 and the regular schedule will resume on Wednesday, June 2, 2021. RECREATION CENTERSCLOSEDGrab ‘n Go meal distribution at Citiparks locations and our sponsored sites will resume on Wednesday, June 2, 2021. MELLON PARK TENNIS CENTERCLOSED SPRAY PARKSSpray Parks open Saturday, May 29, 2021, from 10 a.m. to 8 p.m. daily SCHENLEY PARK SKATING RINKClosed for the season OLIVER BATH HOUSERemains closed | 26/5/2021 08:36:45 |
| City Seeking to Convert Streetlights to Energy-Saving LED | PITTSBURGH, PA (May 26, 2021) The City of Pittsburgh is seeking proposals to convert its 35,000 streetlights to LED, which will provide long-term savings, and reduce energy usage and light pollution. The Office of Management and Budget has released a Request for Proposals from interested vendors to convert the streetlights over a three-year period starting in 2022. It is available on the City’s online contracting website Beacon. The project will result in the conversion of the City’s existing 35,000 high pressure sodium (HPS) cobra head streetlights to LED. The City recognizes that advances in lighting, communication, sensor, and other technologies have created fiscally prudent opportunities for local governments to improve public services, reduce long-term utility obligations, reduce energy consumption while advancing equity and sustainability goals through street lighting modernization projects. Respondents may elect to submit multiple options for innovative financing or phasing that would allow the City to leverage these opportunities. RFP responses are due by July 8 and the contract is scheduled to be awarded in August. A fact sheet on the benefits of LED streetlights from the U.S. Department of Energy is available here. More information on the Streetlight LED Conversion will be available in the coming months on Engage PGH. | 26/5/2021 10:34:23 |
| Webster Avenue Speed Humps to be Installed Next Week | PITTSBURGH, PA (May 26, 2021) The City of Pittsburgh’s Department of Mobility and Infrastructure (DOMI) is pleased to announce the installation of traffic calming measures on Webster Avenue from Herron Avenue to Orion Street in the Upper Hill neighborhood.Data collected during the Spring indicated that 66% of vehicles traveling on Webster Avenue exceed the posted speed limit of 25 mph, with an 85th percentile speed of 32 mph. Coupled with a long crash history, this rate of speeding indicated a strong need for a traffic calming intervention.The project will include the construction of two additional speed humps on Webster Avenue, extending the previous traffic calming project constructed in 2019. Permanent signage and pavement markings will be installed to alert motorists of approaching speed humps. Speed humps are midblock traffic calming devices that raise the entire wheelbase of a vehicle to reduce its speed.Work is tentatively expected to begin the week of June 1, 2021, and is expected to last two days, weather permitting. Hours of construction will be Monday through Friday, 7:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. Webster Avenue will be closed to traffic during these hours, and temporary no parking signage will be posted at each speed hump location. Buses and local traffic will be permitted to utilize this route.Thank you for your cooperation during this time and we hope there will be only minor inconveniences. If you have questions about this project or other traffic calming projects, you may contact us by email at trafficcalming@pittsburghpa.gov, or by calling 311 or 412-255-2621. You can learn more about DOMI’s Neighborhood Traffic Calming Program at www.pittsburghpa.gov/domi/traffic-calming. | 26/5/2021 10:57:50 |
| City Receives Grant for Homewood Vacant Property Study | PITTSBURGH, PA (Mary 27, 2021) The City of Pittsburgh has received a grant from the Pennsylvania Department of Community and Economic Development to fund a Homewood Vacant Property Study.  The $17,500 grant will be used to study and analyze the following issues, based on community feedback and needs: - Vacant properties that are salvageable for possible rehabilitation  - City-owned lots that can be sold through the Side Yard program  - City-owned lots that can be utilized for URA/City/Housing Authority led development  - Structures and lots that can be sold through the City Land Bank More information will be released as it becomes available. | 27/5/2021 10:55:28 |
| Merrimac Street Speed Humps to be Installed Next Week | PITTSBURGH, PA (May 27, 2021) The City of Pittsburgh’s Department of Mobility and Infrastructure (DOMI) is pleased to announce the installation of traffic calming measures on Merrimac Street from Grandview Avenue to Woodruff Street in the Mount Washington neighborhood.Data collected during the Spring indicated that 82% of vehicles traveling on Merrimac Street exceed the posted speed limit of 25 mph, with an 85th percentile speed of 35 mph. Coupled with a long crash history, this rate of speeding indicated a strong need for a traffic calming intervention.The project will include the construction of four speed humps on Merrimac Street. Permanent signage and pavement markings will be installed to alert motorists of approaching speed humps. Speed humps are midblock traffic calming devices that raise the entire wheelbase of a vehicle to reduce its speed.Work is tentatively expected to begin the week of June 1, 2021, and is expected to last two days, weather permitting. Hours of construction will be Monday through Friday, 7:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. Merrimac Street will be closed to traffic during these hours, and temporary no parking signage will be posted at each speed hump location. Flaggers will be stationed at each intersection in order to allow local traffic access to and from their residences.Thank You for your cooperation during this time and we hope there will be only minor inconveniences. If you have questions about this project or other traffic calming projects, you may contact us by email at trafficcalming@pittsburghpa.gov, or by calling 311 or 412-255-2621. You can learn more about DOMI’s Neighborhood Traffic Calming Program at www.pittsburghpa.gov/domi/traffic-calming. | 27/5/2021 08:45:23 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Thursday, May 27, 2021 | Oakland Pop-Up Ribbon-CuttingTime: 10 a.m.Location: 3608 Forbes AvenueFire PromotionsTime: 1 p.m.Location: City Council Chambers | 27/5/2021 08:40:05 |
| City Announces Plans to Open Swimming Pools, Calls for More Lifeguards | PITTSBURGH, PA (May 27, 2021) The City of Pittsburgh is making preparations to open eight of its public pools next month, but is still seeking to find enough lifeguards to staff them. If it can attract more lifeguards, it can work towards opening more pools throughout the summer.  The Department of Parks and Recreation needs approximately 80 guards to staff eight pools.   Lifeguards must be City of Pittsburgh residents, at least 16 years old by June 30, 2021, and willing to work in any part of the City. Application information is available here. The City provides applicants free lifeguard certifications. With pools and other outdoor activities coming online this summer after closures in 2020 due to the COVID-19 pandemic, it has been challenging for employers in the public and private sectors to find lifeguards and other staff — for instance, the state Department of Conservation and Natural Resources announced this week that several pools at state parks throughout Pennsylvania may remain closed due to staffing issues. Other City summertime jobs such as staffing the Roving Art Cart, Farmer’s Markets, and Spray Parks are also open, and having trouble attracting applicants. More information is available online at the City Careers page.The City has received approximately 70 lifeguard applications so far, in advance of the scheduled opening of pools on Monday, June 14, the week after Pittsburgh Public Schools let out for the summer. The bare minimum of 80 lifeguards is needed to open one pool per City Council District, not counting District 8, which does not have a public pool.  If fully staffed, the following pools are scheduled to open: 1. Ammon - (D6)     2. Highland - (D7)     3. Homewood - (D9)     4. Ormsby -  (D3)     5. Phillips - (D4)     6. Sue Murray - (D1)     7. Ream - (D2)     8. Schenley - (D5)    The City hopes to open more pools should staffing levels rise. More announcements are expected in coming weeks. | 27/5/2021 16:43:02 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Friday, May 28, 2021 | No public events scheduled | 28/5/2021 08:33:54 |
| Milling and Paving to Resume Tuesday, Environmental Services Strip District Drop-Off Services Closed Until Thursday for Paving Work | PITTSBURGH, PA (May 28, 2021) The City of Pittsburgh Department of Mobility and Infrastructure (DOMI) is continuing its 2021 milling and paving program next week on Tuesday, June 1.  Streets being milled include: Fahnestock St, Nimick Pl, Larimer Ave, Cumberland St, Alora Way, Oak Way, Augusta St, Enderlin Way, Brooch Way, Creve Way, Powell St, Hollywood St, Grandview Ave.  Streets being paved include: Shady Ave, Cedarcove St, Windfall Way, Marland Way, Herron Ave, Midwood Way, Lipton Way, Bertram Way, Fahnestock St, Nimick Pl, Larimer Ave, Harvard Sq, Sawyer St, Cumberland St, Alora Way, Oak Way, Augusta St, Poe Way and 56th St. The Department of Public Works’ Environmental Services advises that due to milling and paving, its recycling drop-off dumpsters in the Strip District will close until Thursday morning. In the meantime residents may drop off recyclable materials at the locations listed here: https://pittsburghpa.gov/dpw/drop-off. The full paving schedule for the week, including further details on streets and intersections, is available here. This year the City is investing nearly $16 million in the street resurfacing program, which supports asphalt street resurfacing, ADA curb ramp upgrades on paved streets, and repair of concrete, brick and block stone streets throughout Pittsburgh.      Approximately 34 miles of streets will be resurfaced this year. Additional mileage will be resurfaced through cooperation agreements with local public utilities. Mechanical patching will improve many miles more by addressing particular trouble spots on otherwise acceptable street corridors.    While many residents are continuing to work from home, the City will be continuing extra efforts to notify residents to move their vehicles to enable street resurfacing to proceed. Streets scheduled for resurfacing will be posted weekly on DOMI’s website and will be publicized through city social media channels. | 28/5/2021 10:41:13 |
| Mayor Peduto Joining Lawrenceville Community for Centennial Celebration of Doughboy Statue | PITTSBURGH, PA (May 28, 2021) Mayor William Peduto will be joining the Lawrenceville Historical Society and community on Sunday, May 30, 2021 to commemorate the centennial of the neighborhood’s iconic Doughboy statue at the intersection of Penn Avenue and Butler Street.  The Doughboy statue serves as the iconic entryway into the Lawrenceville neighborhood. The community organization at the time, the Lawrenceville Board of Trade, led community fundraising efforts throughout 1918-1919 to commission the statue. It was designed by Allen Newman and approved by the City of Pittsburgh Art Commission in 1920. It was dedicated on May 30, 1921.  Throughout its one hundred years as serving as a symbol of the Lawrenceville neighborhood, the community has worked to preserve the statue. In 1947, it was redesigned to include the names of 2,729 service men and women around the circular plinth that the Doughboy stands atop. There was also a large community effort in the 1980s led by the then-Lawrenceville Citizens Council to refurbish the Doughboy and the surrounding area they called “Doughboy Square”.  Members of the Lawrenceville community continue to promote the preservation and fundraising efforts for the Doughboy statue and work with the City on its maintenance. Mayor Peduto will be joined by the Lawrenceville Historical Society, Lawrenceville Corporation, Lawrenceville United, VFW Posts 214 and 351 and community advocates for the commemoration event.  A video will be produced by the City Channel Pittsburgh from the event with interviews about the Doughboy from key community historians and members that will be available on the City’s YouTube channel.  Motorist may experience some delays near this location during the 12:30 p.m. ceremony as there will be partial closures on Penn and Butler to safely accommodate the audience attendees. | 28/5/2021 10:22:29 |
| City of Pittsburgh Receives Two Grants to Make Historical Records More Accessible | PITTSBURGH, PA (June 1, 2021) The Office of the City Clerk has been awarded over $140,000 to support two projects designed to increase the accessibility of City records.A grant of $133,934 from the National Historical Publications and Records Commission of the National Archives will fund a two-year project to increase access to a backlog of 751 cubic feet of historical government records. The collections targeted in this project provide an unprecedented window into primary source material from important entities of the City of Pittsburgh, including City Council, the City Planning Department, the City Planning Commission, the Historic Review Commission, the Department of Public Works and the Urban Redevelopment Authority.Dating from the formation of the City in 1816 to the early 2000s, the records document the evolution of the city’s built environment and the administrative, legal and policy decisions that supported its development over two centuries. The funding will support the hiring of project staff to process, preserve and catalog the records. Over 50 years of Planning Commission minutes (1918-1969) will also be digitized and made available online.Additionally, a Records Care Grant from the Pennsylvania Historical and Museum Commission (PHMC) will provide $8,016 in support of an ongoing effort by the Clerk’s Office to digitize the City’s entire legislative history. The Office has already digitized City Council meeting minutes and legislation dating back to 1868 and made the information available online here: https://pittsburghpa.gov/clerk/instructions.The Records Care grant will expand this digitization effort to include City Council meeting minutes from 1816 to 1877, as well as legislation and minutes from over 20 annexed municipalities, including the City of Allegheny and former boroughs such as Birmingham, Carrick, Lawrenceville and Manchester. Digitization will reduce physical handing of these fragile records, which will also be rehoused in acid-free enclosures to ensure long-term preservation.“The City Clerk’s Office is the official repository for historical government records of the City of Pittsburgh,” said City Clerk Brenda Pree. “And our goal in being the keeper of these records is to make them easily available and accessible. These grants will allow our records management division to expand on our current digitization and access efforts and continue our commitment to service by making our records more accessible.”The digitized content from both grant projects will be made available on the POWER Library’s Pennsylvania Photos and Documents web site, administered by the State of Pennsylvania. For more information, contact City Archivist Nick Hartley at nicholas.hartley@pittsburghpa.gov or 412-255-2138. | 1/6/2021 10:48:55 |
| Construction Begins on Reynolds Street Neighborway | PITTSBURGH, PA (June 1, 2021) The Department of Mobility and Infrastructure (DOMI) is pleased to announce the construction of the Reynolds Street Neighborway from Beechwood Boulevard to the Hawthorne Trail past Carnegie Place as part of the Move Forward PGH program.The project will include the installation of neighborhood traffic circles at the intersection of Reynold Street and S Murtland Street and S Lang Avenue. Reynolds Street’s new traffic circles will incorporate design standards that increase accessibility of these intersections for persons with disabilities. These improvements include the retention of stop controls at current stop locations, adding high visibility, non-slip markings at all pedestrian crossing locations, and maintaining low level landscaping only (plantings must be 36” or under). Once installed, DOMI will monitor the project area and modify designs as appropriate.Work is tentatively expected to begin on Wednesday June 2, 2021 and is expected to last until Thursday June 3rd, weather permitting. Hours of construction will be from 7:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. each day. These intersections will remain open, but drivers may experience short delays due to flagging operations.Thank you for your cooperation during this time and we hope there will be only minor inconveniences. If you have questions about this project or other Move Forward projects, you may contact us by email at moveforwardpgh@gmail.com, or by calling 311 or 412-255-2621. You can learn more about the Move Forward initiative at moveforwardpgh.org. | 1/6/2021 16:22:42 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Tuesday, June 1, 2021 | No public events scheduled. | 1/6/2021 08:37:48 |
| City Releases Citywide Pedestrian Safety Action Plan | PITTSBURGH, PA (June 2, 2021) The City of Pittsburgh’s Department of Mobility and Infrastructure (DOMI) is pleased to announce the release of the City’s first Pedestrian Safety Action Plan (PSAP) – key component of Mayor William Peduto’s commitment to Complete Streets. The PSAP identifies the necessary policies and infrastructure improvements required to reduce the number and severity of crashes involving pedestrians.DOMI will be hosting a virtual lunch-and-learn event to introduce plan goals and vision and kick off implementation on June 16th, 2021 from noon to 1 PM. Registration and details for the event are here. Residents may also call the DOMI at (412) 255-8850 for assistance in registering.According to census data, Pittsburgh has one of the highest rates of pedestrian commuting in the country, and is one of the least-dependent employment markets. While Pittsburghers enjoy walking, it is not without risk. A review of crash data from the last five years reveals that pedestrian deaths are overrepresented in the total roadway fatalities in the city. Based on a detailed analysis of local crash data, the plan identifies critical pedestrian safety issues, locations with a higher risk for pedestrian crashes, specific actions that DOMI will undertake to improve safety, and metrics for monitoring performance over time.The PSAP was developed over multiple years through a collaborative effort by DOMI, the Federal Highway Administration, and a core group of local stakeholders from the Pittsburgh Complete Streets Advisory Committee. A number of the plan’s recommendations have already been implemented while work is underway on other recommended actions, including the implementation of the city’s Safe Routes to School Program and data collection and evaluation on sidewalk and curb ramp conditions with the help of PGH Lab 6.0 partner, pathVu.The PSAP can be reviewed here. | 2/6/2021 10:10:19 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Wednesday, June 2, 2021 | Elmhurst Innovation Center Ribbon-CuttingTime: 10 a.m.Location: 575 Technology Drive, South OaklandPresenting Proclamation to Hilltop PharmacyTime: NoonLocation: Mayor's Conference Room | 2/6/2021 08:15:06 |
| Mayor Peduto Joins Representative Frankel and Community Advocates in Support of State Firearm Preemption Reform | PITTSBURGH, PA (June 3, 2021) City of Pittsburgh Mayor William Peduto joined local and state elected officials and community organizations today to announce support for Pennsylvania State Representative Dan Frankel’s proposed legislation that would enable municipalities to pass their own gun reform ordinances, which is currently limited by Pennsylvania’s preemption law.  Representative Frankel has proposed two pieces of legislation that will enable municipalities to pass their own gun reform ordinances that reflect residents’ desire to balance second amendment rights with protections of local and community interests. One bill would remove existing preemption language from the Second Class County Code and the other would remove existing preemption language from both Title 18 (Crimes) and Title 53 (Municipalities).  "Far too many of our neighbors' lives have been stolen in mass shootings and neighborhood gun violence. Cities like Pittsburgh have taken bold action to prevent gun violence, but we need help from Harrisburg to keep our residents and visitors safe and prevent future tragedies," said Mayor William Peduto. "I am proud to support Representative Frankel's legislation that would allow local governments to enact commonsense and reasonable gun reform measures that our communities want and are proven to save lives." There has been overwhelming support for locally-proposed gun reforms in the City of Pittsburgh to prevent gun violence, including laws prohibiting assault weapons, prohibiting firearms modifications and certain ammunition, and an Extreme Risk Protection Order that would allow family members to petition courts to temporarily remove firearms from someone who poses a danger to themselves or others. However, many legal actions taken locally and statewide have been blocked by the preemption law. The City of Pittsburgh recently filed an Amicus Brief in support of the City of Philadelphia’s legal challenge to state preemption law.  Rep. Dan Frankel, who co-founded the PA Safe Caucus 22 years ago to fight for firearm regulations in Harrisburg, said that it is long past time to allow municipal governments to do what state legislators have failed to do. “The reality here is that Pennsylvanians are dying, communities are suffering, and we can do something about it,” Frankel said. “If the state legislature can’t look at the evidence and act to protect the public when it comes to firearm regulation, it needs to get out of the way and allow local officials to keep their residents safe.” Mayor Peduto and Representative Frankel were joined by State Senator Jay Costa, City Councilman Corey O’Connor, City Councilperson Erika Strassburger, and several community-based organizations advocating for commonsense gun regulations such as Voices Against Violence, Moms Demand Action, CeaseFirePA and others.  In addition to gun reform laws, Mayor Peduto’s administration has advocated for community-based violence prevention through creating the Group Violence Intervention team, STOP the Violence, Health, Safety, and Violence Prevention Initiative, expanding gun violence data collection and analysis, My Brother’s Keeper community violence mini-grant program, funding for community-based gun violence prevention programs, and more. | 3/6/2021 11:43:01 |
| Local Food Policy Collaboration Launches Pittsburgh's First Food Equity Ambassador Program | PITTSBURGH, PA (June 3, 2021) The Pittsburgh Food Policy Council (PFPC) and #PghFoodTeam is announcing the first cohort of the newly created Pittsburgh Food Equity Ambassador Program.  From over 50 applications, the first Ambassador cohort of 13 residents represent all nine Pittsburgh City Council Districts.The Pittsburgh Food Equity Ambassador program will kick off on Friday, June 4th and include a series of 9 sessions over the next six months to learn from residents about food systems challenges and triumphs and  build community, while developing leadership and advocacy skills. The program seeks to grow partnerships between local governments and communities by co- designing impactful policy solutions. “The pandemic has exacerbated  food insecurity in the region. This program seeks to center community voices in policymaking to address Pittsburgh’s food inequities through the building of robust community food systems and healthy communities,” says Dawn Plummer, Executive Director of the Pittsburgh Food Policy Council about the program.The PghFoodTeam was selected as one of 20 local teams nationwide to participate in the Healthiest Cities &amp; Counties Challenge, a program funded by the Aetna Foundation, together with the American Public Health Association (APHA) and the National Association of Counties (NACo). The Challenge seeks to significantly expand and deepen grassroots leadership and participation in policymaking on urgent matters of healthy food access and preventable chronic disease.  The Aetna Foundation, which first launched the Healthiest Cities &amp; Counties Challenge in partnership with APHA and NACo in 2016, is an independent, charitable and philanthropic affiliate of CVS Health. The PghFoodTeam, led by the Pittsburgh Food Policy Council, teamed up with leaders at the City of Pittsburgh, Allegheny County Health Department, American Heart Association-Greater Pittsburgh, and One Pennsylvania to pursue two goals. The first goal is to identify healthy food priority areas in Pittsburgh for policy action and focused collective impact. The second goal is to create a consistent mechanism to meaningfully engage residents with local government to co-design policy that positively impacts food and health equity in priority communities."As we know from the suffering we faced the last year, food insecurity impacts residents in every walk of life and every corner of our city. Working directly with our residents to design food policies that best serve them is precisely the right move at this juncture, and on behalf of all the PghFoodTeam partners I want to thank our Food Equity Ambassadors for their service," Mayor William Peduto said.The nine sessions of the Food Equity Ambassador program will cover topics related to food access such as urban gardens, food apartheid, farmers markets, and transportation that are determined by program participants. Ambassadors will be invited to share their experiences and develop solutions to food access barriers with support from local leaders that include the City of Pittsburgh staff. With grant support provided by the Challenge via the Aetna Foundation, Ambassadors will be compensated for their participation and will have significant opportunities to shape the direction of the program. The Ambassadors, ranging from high school student to elders, include;- Carol Gerner  (District 1, Northside)- Tacumba Turner Jr. (District 2, Sheraden)- Nathaniel Palmer (District 3, Oakland)- Lisa Reihl (District 4, Beecheview)- Christina Mays-Walker (District 5, Hazelwood)- Giavanna Gibson (District 5, Greenfield)- Marcia Scott (District 6, Hill District)- Teaira Collins (District 6, Hill District)- Abigail Gildea (District 7, Bloomfield)- Manuel Michaca (District 8, Shadyside)- Betty Lane (District 9, Larimer)- Anna Sekine (District 9, Garfield)- Zinna Scott (District 9, Homewood)This inaugural cohort will set the stage for what we hope will be a permanent pathway for residents to collaborate with local government and regional leaders in order to accelerate systems change and policy action on food and health equity in the city of bridges.Contact:Dawn Plummer, Pittsburgh Food Policy Council, 412-406-6061, dawn@pittsburghfoodpolicy.org###The Pittsburgh Food Policy Council (PFPC) brings together stakeholders from across the food system to examine, develop and improve our region.  As a collective impact organization, participants in the work of the PFPC are our most important asset. The PFPC comprises individuals and representatives of organizations and stakeholders from all sectors of the local food system. The PFPC seeks to build a just, equitable and sustainable food system. | 3/6/2021 17:13:00 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Thursday, June 3, 2021 | EPA Roundtable EventTime: NoonPress Conference on Gun Safety Legislation with Rep. Frankel, State Sen. Jay Costa, Councilman Corey O'Connor, Councilperson Erika Strassburger, Voices Against Violence, Moms Demand Action, CeaseFirePATime: 1 p.m.Location: Schenley Plaza, Oakland | 3/6/2021 09:42:52 |
| Welcoming Pittsburgh and Partners Host Call for Safe, Stable Housing for Refugee Resettlement | PITTSBURGH, PA (June 3, 2021) The City of Pittsburgh’s Welcoming Pittsburgh initiative co-hosted a webinar last week called Renting to Refugees in Allegheny County, a session for landlords to learn about the opportunity to rent to refugees in partnership with refugee resettlement agencies. Twenty-four local landlords and counting have agreed to assist the families who are anticipated to join the Greater Pittsburgh community in the coming months.  The webinar was hosted in response to President Biden’s announcement that the United States will accept 62,500 refugees this year, including Pittsburgh as a resettlement destination. Refugees are people recognized by the United States government who have left their country and are unable to return to that country due to a well-founded fear of persecution. Landlords were able to learn about refugees, how resettlement agencies help them establish themselves in communities across the United States and the opportunity to partner with agencies to offer safe, stable housing options in Pittsburgh. Landlords who are interested in working with the U.S. Department of Housing &amp; Urban Development (HUD) to provide housing for refugees can fill out this poll.  The webinar included representatives from local federally-recognized refugee resettlement agencies Acculturation for Justice, Access and Peace Outreach (AJAPO) and Jewish Family and Community Services (JFCS) as well as a representative from HUD. Additional partners include All for All, Urban Redevelopment Authority of Pittsburgh, ANSAR, City of Pittsburgh Commission on Human Relations, Allegheny County Department of Human Services and CREATE Lab.  This announcement comes just days ahead of World Refugee Day on June 18 and Welcoming Pittsburgh and Pittsburgh Downtown Partnership’s World Square running June 11-13, celebrating all of Pittsburgh's neighbors with a showcase of businesses, artists, makers, performers, food purveyors and more from across various international communities in Market Square. | 2/6/2021 15:05:14 |
| World Square Returns to Downtown Celebrating Pittsburgh's International and Immigrant Communities | PITTSBURGH, PA (June 4, 2021) Mayor William Peduto’s Welcoming Pittsburgh initiative and the Pittsburgh Downtown Partnership have announced that from June 11 to June 13, while the Three Rivers Arts Festival is in full swing, Market Square will once again be transformed with the sights, sounds, and cuisine of the international and immigrant communities of Pittsburgh. “World Square – Welcoming All of Pittsburgh’s Neighbors” provides a global outlook and a unique opportunity for international and newcomer communities within the region. The event was first launched in 2019 as a community collaboration spearheaded by the Pittsburgh Downtown Partnership and Welcoming Pittsburgh to better support and integrate Pittsburgh’s immigrant and refugee communities. Via a showcase of businesses, artists, makers, performers, and food purveyors from across the various international newcomer communities, the event creates a welcoming environment for the Pittsburgh community to experience a diverse array of cultures in a spirit of inclusivity.“Celebrating our rich immigrant cultures and providing opportunities for them to inform our community about the diversity and energy that help shape our city and has never been more important than now” said Mayor Peduto. “We’re thrilled to see the return of this event Downtown, and to recognize and celebrate the cultural expressions of our international neighbors.” The vibrant return will find vendors of hand-crafted items, prepared foods, live entertainment, and much more, spanning three consecutive days that, with drastically reduced safety mandates for outdoor gatherings, is expected to see a significant increase in foot traffic – an extra boost for those vendors who faced serious challenges throughout 2020. “World Square aims to help build connections through an entertaining and immersive experience that highlights the diversity of the various communities that call Pittsburgh home,” said Feyisola Akintola, of Welcoming Pittsburgh. “We have such a vibrant immigrant, refugee, and international community in Pittsburgh. It’s really exciting to have representation of these diverse cultures, different foods, cultural performances and musical acts, and bring them to increasingly engaged audiences in a positive and accurate way.” A sampling of vendors includes: - Alquisiras Restaurante y Paletería, serving authentic Mexican ice cream - Authentically African by Moa, imported West African fashion and accessories, as well as handmade crafts - Costa RicART, featuring handmade goods crafted from reused materials - El Rincon Oaxaqueño, specializing in authentic oaxaqueño recipes - Pisko Peruvian Gourmet, serving authentic Peruvian food - You Can Call Me YOKO, handmade gemstone and crystals jewelry - Zafaron Afghan Cuisine, featuring delicious dishes from Afghanistan - and more. Entertainment will vary over the three days, including performances by Pittsburgh Samba, Oladayo, Geña y Peña, Alba Flamenca, Naina Kathak Dance Troupe, and others. A full entertainment lineup will be available at WorldSquarePGH.com. Additional community organizations served on the World Square Steering Committee and their contributions helped to create this event. These organizations include: - Welcoming Pittsburgh - Pittsburgh Downtown Partnership - The Global Switchboard - Pittsburgh Hispanic Development Corporation - Pittsburgh Metropolitan Area Hispanic Chamber of Commerce - PittGlobal and Program for Immigrant/International Entrepreneurs (PIE) - University of Pittsburgh - All for All - Jewish Family and Community Services - Hello Neighbor Generous support for World Square has been provided by the Benedum Foundation and the Pittsburgh Cultural Trust. | 4/6/2021 12:14:43 |
| Milling and Paving Resume Monday | PITTSBURGH, PA (June 4, 2021) The City of Pittsburgh Department of Mobility and Infrastructure (DOMI) is continuing its 2021 milling and paving program next week.Streets being milled include:Writt Way, Glen Mawr, Brevet Way, Oak Way, Powell, Ashlyn, Bellevoir Way, Jeffers, Alora Way, Creve Way, Daleland Ave, Sandwich Way, Kohlmeyers Lane, Clearfield, Behrens, Augusta and Grandview Ave. Streets being paved include:Cumerland, Hollywood, Enderlin Way, Bertram Way, Dexter, Writt Way, Glen Mawr, Brevet Way, Oakglen, Ashlyn, Bellevoir Way, Jeffers, Oak Way, Powell, Alora Way. The full schedule for the week, including further details on streets and intersections, is available here.This year the City is investing nearly $16 million in the street resurfacing program, which supports asphalt street resurfacing, ADA curb ramp upgrades on paved streets, and repair of concrete, brick and block stone streets throughout Pittsburgh. Starting Monday, ADA curb ramps will be installed on Fletcher St, Baxter St, Clawson St, Susquehanna St, Dufermline St, S Lexington St, Leroi St and S Lang St, weather permitting.Approximately 34 miles of street will be resurfaced this year. Additional mileage will be resurfaced through cooperation agreements with local public utilities. Mechanical patching will improve many miles more by addressing particular trouble spots on otherwise acceptable street corridors.   While many residents are continuing to work from home, the City will be continuing extra efforts to notify residents to move their vehicles to enable street resurfacing to proceed. Streets scheduled for resurfacing will be posted weekly on DOMI’s website and will be publicized through city social media channels. | 4/6/2021 09:57:08 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Friday, June 4, 2021 | No public events scheduled | 4/6/2021 08:17:31 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Monday, June 7, 2021 | No public events scheduled | 7/6/2021 09:20:51 |
| Mossfield Street to Close Saturday for Hillside Maintenance | PITTSBURGH, PA (June 8, 2021) The City of Pittsburgh Department of Public Works is announcing that portions of Mossfield Street in the Lawrenceville and Garfield neighborhoods will close for hillside maintenance on Saturday, June 12. The work is being done in coordination with Allegheny Cemetery, which will be working on their side of the street while DPW performs maintenance on the hillside opposite the cemetery.   Closures are expected Saturday from 6 a.m. to 2 p.m. The alternative route for Mossfield Street during the closures follows Schenley Avenue and North Mathilda Street. | 8/6/2021 13:19:10 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Tuesday, June 8, 2021 | First Source Center Grand OpeningTime: 5:30 p.m.Location: Hill House Association, 1835 Centre Avenue, Hill District | 8/6/2021 09:10:47 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Wednesday, June 9, 2021 | Ribbon Cutting for McBride Park Dek Hockey RinkTime: 6:30 p.m.Location: 1785 McBride Avenue, Lincoln Place | 9/6/2021 08:19:17 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Thursday, June 10, 2021 | Bakery Square Public Art DedicationTime: NoonLocation: 6425 Penn Avenue, LarimerSecond Avenue Commons GroundbreakingTime: 2 p.m.Location: Second Avenue and Municipal Courts Drive, DowntownBrewers Block GroundbreakingTime: 3:30 p.m.Location: 3234 Liberty Avenue, Polish HillNorthside United Against Gun Violence Virtual ForumTime: 6 p.m. | 10/6/2021 09:33:50 |
| Pittsburgh Financial Empowerment Center Wins Grant for Eviction Prevention Efforts | PITTSBURGH, PA (June 11, 2021) The City of Pittsburgh and its partner Neighborhood Allies have been awarded a technical assistance grant by Cities for Financial Empowerment Fund to expand services provided by the Pittsburgh Financial Empowerment Center.The CFE Fund is seeking to leverage the existing FEC infrastructure to launch a new pilot, Eviction Prevention Boost, that integrates financial counseling within municipally-led rental assistance and eviction prevention efforts in response to COVID-19.The first step in launching such a pilot is working closely with FEC partners, and their local rental assistance and eviction prevention programs, to design how this integration might work across a range of local contexts. The CFE Fund is providing technical assistance to support Pittsburgh efforts to establish the pilot program.“We are pleased to be working in coordination with the City of Pittsburgh, Allegheny County Department of Human Services, and other local partners to provide additional resources for housing stabilization through the Emergency Rental Assistance Program. With this integration, households receiving rental assistance will have access to ongoing, one-on-one support from a trained and certified financial professional, that will lead to measurable outcomes in financial health.” Sarah Dieleman Perry, Director of Economic Opportunity, Neighborhood Allies.The Pittsburgh FEC offers free professional one-on-one financial counseling for individuals and families looking to address their financial challenges and plan for their futures. Any area resident over the age of 18 can register to meet regularly with an accredited financial counselor — by phone or video during the pandemic — who will help them define and reach their own financial goals.As of this March, the FEC had provided direct personal financial management support to 868 people since the City of Pittsburgh and Neighborhood Allies launched the program in March 2019, leading to nearly $1.3 million in total debt reduction and $1 million in increased savings. | 11/6/2021 08:24:07 |
| Milling and Paving to Resume Monday | PITTSBURGH, PA (June 11, 2021) The City of Pittsburgh Department of Mobility and Infrastructure (DOMI) is continuing its 2021 milling and paving program next week. Streets being milled include: Grandview Ave, Horner St, Lakewood St, Greenbush St, Kohlmeyers Ln, Sandwich Way, Junius St, 45th St and Bausman St.   Streets being paved include: Dexter St, Daleland St, Augusta St, Ashlyn St, Alora Way, Creve Way, Grandview Ave, Horner St, Lakewood St, Greenbush St, Kohlmeyers Ln, Sandwich Way and Junius St.  The full paving schedule for the week, including further details on streets and intersections, is available here. This year the City is investing nearly $16 million in the street resurfacing program, which supports asphalt street resurfacing, ADA curb ramp upgrades on paved streets, and repair of concrete, brick and block stone streets throughout Pittsburgh.      Approximately 34 miles of streets will be resurfaced this year. Additional mileage will be resurfaced through cooperation agreements with local public utilities. Mechanical patching will improve many miles more by addressing particular trouble spots on otherwise acceptable street corridors.    While many residents are continuing to work from home, the City will be continuing extra efforts to notify residents to move their vehicles to enable street resurfacing to proceed. Streets scheduled for resurfacing will be posted weekly on DOMI’s website and will be publicized through city social media channels. | 11/6/2021 11:38:09 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Friday, June 11, 2021 | No public events scheduled | 11/6/2021 08:17:39 |
| City Facilities to Close but Garbage Collection to Continue on Juneteenth Holiday | PITTSBURGH, PA (June 14, 2021) City of Pittsburgh offices and facilities will be closed Friday, June 18, in observance of Juneteenth, but regular Department of Public Works collection of refuse and recyclables will continue on schedule. Mayor William Peduto introduced legislation to City Council in February to make Juneteenth an official city holiday for the first time. Spray parks and swimming pools will be open Friday but other Citiparks facilities will be closed: HEALTHY ACTIVE LIVING CENTERS (Senior Centers)CLOSED—Friday, June 18 The Grab ‘n Go Meal Schedule will accommodate Seniors with extra meals on Wednesday, June 16, 2021 and the regular schedule will resume on Monday, June 21. RECREATION CENTERSCLOSED— Friday, June 18 The Summer Food Service Program Meal Distribution will resume on Monday, June 21. A complete listing of Citiparks Summer Food Service Program locations can be found HERE. MELLON PARK TENNIS CENTERCLOSED—Friday, June 18 through Sunday, June 20. (A large Juneteenth celebration will be in Mellon Park during this time.) SPRAY PARKSOpen 10 a.m. to 8 p.m. SWIMMING POOLSOpen · A complete listing of open pools and hours of operations can be found here. SCHENLEY PARK SKATING RINKClosed for the season OLIVER BATH HOUSEClosed for renovations | 14/6/2021 10:09:22 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Monday, June 14, 2021 | No public events scheduled | 14/6/2021 09:58:27 |
| URA Board to Vote on New Affordable Housing in East Liberty at Former Parking Lot Site | PITTSBURGH, PA (June 14, 2021) More affordable housing will be coming to East Liberty through an agreement between the Urban Redevelopment Authority of Pittsburgh and Trek Development Group. The URA board is set to vote Thursday on selling a parking lot at the corner of Harvard and Beatty streets to Trek to make way for a 42-unit mixed-income apartment building. The Harvard Beatty development follows the completion of Trek’s mixed-income Mellon’s Orchard development nearby on Station Street.  Both developments are in response to the wave of high-end market-rate rental housing development in the area and the subsequent loss of affordable housing in the East End, including the loss of housing at Penn Plaza. Developers are working with the URA and housing relocation agencies to notify displaced residents of the new housing opportunities, and the new housing comes with long-term deed restrictions to keep them affordable. Of the 42 units planned at Harvard Beatty, nine are market rate; four are available at or below 20% Area Median Income (AMI); four at or below 30% AMI; 14 at or below 50% AMI; and 11 at or below 60% AMI. Harvard Beatty was awarded an allocation of 9% Low-Income Housing Tax Credits (LIHTC) by the Pennsylvania Housing Finance Agency (PHFA) in August 2020 to help finance the construction. That was part of a record number of low-income housing credits secured last year by Mayor William Peduto’s administration in support of affordable housing developments citywide. At Thursday’s meeting the URA board plans to sell the property to Trek and approve a $450,000 Rental Gap Program loan with the developer. | 14/6/2021 14:27:53 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Tuesday, June 15, 2021 | U.S. Global Leadership Coalition's Global Impact ForumTime: 1:00 p.m.Mayor's Office Staff MeetingTime: 4:00 p.m. | 15/6/2021 08:35:31 |
| ShotSpotter Data Shows the Technology Has Saved Lives | PITTSBURGH, PA (June 15, 2021) The City of Pittsburgh announced data from 2019 and 2020 today that shows the system was the only reporting mechanism to first responders for 13 shooting victims over the past two years. ShotSpotter is a gunshot detection service that uses a wide-area network of acoustic sensors to detect when a gun is fired and then precisely and quickly pinpoints the location of the gunfire. In less than a minute, police and 911 dispatchers are notified of the validated gunfire incidents, even if no one calls 911. The ShotSpotter system was piloted in Pittsburgh Police Zone 5 before being deployed citywide in 2018.In 2019 there were 5 shootings where police and paramedics responded to a ShotSpotter notification without any 911 call and found a victim. In 2020, that number grew to 8 shootings. Without the ShotSpotter notification, it is unknown when, if ever, first responders would have been notified and given the opportunity to provide life saving care.In addition to these shootings where first responders were able to save lives, nearly 31% of all ShotSpotter notifications in 2020 did not also have any accompanying 911 call. This allowed police to recover critical evidence and guns that would have otherwise been missed. | 15/6/2021 13:08:23 |
| City and URA Announce Neighborhood Initiatives Fund Program Round 3 with Focus on Avenues of Hope Corridors | PITTSBURGH, PA (June 15, 2021) – City of Pittsburgh Mayor William Peduto and the Urban Redevelopment Authority of Pittsburgh (URA) announced that the application process for Round 3 of its Neighborhood Initiatives Fund (NIF) Program opens today, Tuesday, June 15; applications are due August 31.The NIF Program makes it easier for City of Pittsburgh communities to access funding for neighborhood-scale projects. Since the beginning of the program in 2019, NIF awards have been granted to 28 projects across more than 20 City neighborhoods for a total investment of over $1.4 million.New this round is the focus on neighborhood commercial districts with priority given to Avenues of Hope corridors.“We are proud to continue the NIF program with a focus this round on supporting the rebuilding of Pittsburgh’s Black main streets through Avenues of Hope,” said Mayor Peduto. “This next round of the NIF will allow the City and URA to invest in community-driven projects that put the community’s vision at the center of development of neighborhood business districts.”The amount of funding available to Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) eligible communities for Round 3 is $500,000; Up to 10 projects will be funded.“The Neighborhood Initiatives Program empowers community-based groups to plan and implement critical economic placekeeping projects designed to strengthen neighborhood fabric. With a special emphasis on Avenues of Hope corridors this year, we’re looking for projects to unlock the vitality of our communities, while helping innovators and entrepreneurs,” said URA Deputy Executive Director Diamonte Walker.NIF Round 3 will grant up to $100,000 to nonprofit organizations or nonprofits with for-profit development partners for eligible non-housing, neighborhood projects including, but not limited to:- Vacant property reclamation and stewardship- Conceptual design and engineering- Historic preservation- Commercial district revitalization- Construction of public space and neighborhood infrastructure improvements, such as streetscape improvements, transit and transportation-related improvements, parks and open space improvements, green infrastructure, and public artThere are two levels of funding available:- Tier 1 funds grants between $20,000 and $30,000 with no matching requirements- Tier 2 funds grants between $30,000 and $100,000 with a 2:1 match requirement (For every $2 of Program funds invested into a project, there must be at least a $1 match by non-URA and non-City sources).The URA will hold virtual information sessions via Zoom from 6:00-8:00 p.m. June 22, July 27, and August 10. Links to the information sessions can be found here.  All sessions will be recorded and available on the URA website.The program guidelines, applications and funding schedule can be found here. For additional information, please contact Josette Fitzgibbons at jfitzgibbons@ura.org. | 15/6/2021 12:49:43 |
| City of Pittsburgh Announces Plans for City Staff to Return to Downtown Offices | PITTSBURGH, PA (June 15, 2021) The City of Pittsburgh has announced that city employees who have been working remotely will be returning to city offices in phases over the next several weeks, adhering to continued health safety precautions.  “We are starting to see the light at the end of the tunnel with mitigation measures being lifted and new daily COVID-19 cases dropping,” said Mayor William Peduto. “All city public services and operations are essential and I am proud of the work that our frontline and remote employees have done throughout the pandemic. We believe that we can now safely bring our staff back into the office, while making reasonable accommodations for childcare and family needs.”  The City has been preparing for employees’ return by:  - Cleaning all HVAC systems  - Cleaning all offices - Providing masks, hand sanitizer and wipes in city employee welcome back kits - Staggering schedules to accommodate social distancing protocols where necessary - Working to accommodate new or different commuting plans and options - Asking all city employees to wear masks if others are wearing masks or if they are uncertain that everyone they are near is vaccinated City employees who have been working remotely will return to city offices in phases by department. The return will begin on June 21 with Mayor’s Office, Office of Community Health and Safety, Office of Community Affairs and Department of Finance staff. A few departments will return each week over the following 5 weeks.  Public health measures will continue to be in place and unvaccinated visitors will be required to wear masks when visiting city facilities like the City-County Building and the John P. Robin Civic Building at 200 Ross Street.  Department of Finance counters, including the real estate counter, cashiers and business tax counter, have been open since April 2021. They will continue to operate in-person on their current schedule of Monday-Friday 8:15 a.m. to 4:15 p.m.  While essential city operations continued largely undisrupted by the shift to remote work for many employees starting in March 2020, most services were moved online to protect employee and resident health. The following city services will remain online-only: - OneStopPGH customer counter will not reopen to the public. Applications for zoning and development review, permits, licenses, inspection requests, appeals, and related activities must be made online through the OneStopPGH customer portal. The OneStopPGH counter will re-open to the public following the move to 412 Blvd of the Allies, anticipated in Winter 2021. - Permit applications for sport fields, park shelters and grove rentals through the Department of Public Works can be made online. Read more about additional special events and permits here.  - City of Pittsburgh boards and commissions will continue to meet virtually. Links to live broadcasts and information for board or commissions’ public meetings are available on their respective website. A full list of boards and commissions is available on the Mayor’s Office website.  - City Council will continue to meet virtually until further notice. Live broadcast information and schedules are available on their website.Residents are urged to continue to use online services when possible. If you have questions or are unable to access online resources, please call 311 (412-255-2621). | 15/6/2021 15:29:58 |
| Oporto Street Complete Closure | PITTSBURGH, PA (June 16, 2021) Oporto Street between Shamokin Street and Huron Street in the South Side Slopes neighborhood will be fully closed to all traffic indefinitely. The heavy rains over the past few days have caused a landslide which necessitated the closure.Vehicular access to Huron Street will only be available from Baldauf Street. Signage indicating the closure will be placed by the Department of Mobility and Infrastructure’s (DOMI) traffic division.Thank you for your cooperation. If you have any questions regarding this closure, please contact the City’s 311 Response Center by dialing 311 or 412-255-2621. | 16/6/2021 09:03:07 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Wednesday, June 16, 2021 | No public events scheduled. | 16/6/2021 08:58:55 |
| Pittsburgh Joins Six Midsize Cities in National Effort to Advance Opportunity and Equity Through Housing Policy | PITTSBURGH, PA (June 16, 2021) The City of Pittsburgh and Urban Redevelopment Authority (URA) announced today Pittsburgh’s participation in the Housing Solutions Lab, a nationally-funded policy initiative for small and midsize cities to advance innovative, evidence-based solutions to address their pressing housing challenges.  The Housing Solutions Lab, led by an interdisciplinary team from the New York University Furman Center with funding from the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, will help seven cities to plan, develop, implement, monitor, and evaluate promising local housing policies that advance equity and opportunity for Pittsburgh residents. While large coastal cities often receive the majority of policy attention for their housing challenges, the Housing Solutions Lab will focus on serving cities with populations between 5,000 and 500,000.  "The City of Pittsburgh is thankful for this great opportunity to have real discussions and think about real solutions for affordable housing with cities that have similar concerns, similar resources but unique local community needs and challenges,” said Mayor William Peduto. “We look forward to working with the six other cities to design equitable solutions so that all Pittsburghers can find and live in quality affordable housing.” In order to foster shared learning and innovation among city leaders, one component of the Lab’s work will be to host housing policy peer networks with cities across the country. Pittsburgh was selected to participate in the inaugural group, which also includes Arlington, TX; Boulder, CO; Cleveland, OH; Jackson, MS; Oakland, CA; and Syracuse, NY.  The City and URA will be using this opportunity to use citywide data analysis and peer support to examine the historic and current context of affordable housing, vacant parcels and neighborhood development throughout Pittsburgh. This will allow them to design programs and solutions to meet the unique affordable housing needs of our communities.  “The City of Pittsburgh and the Urban Redevelopment Authority of Pittsburgh are looking forward to furthering the work of housing equity in Pittsburgh in collaboration with the Housing Solutions Lab and our fellow cities through this innovative program,” said Jeremy Carter, Housing Opportunity Fund Consumer Programs’ Manager at the URA. “Pittsburgh has unique challenges and assets related to housing policy and equity including its complex history, geography, environmental factors and the housing stock and availability in our City. We have an incredible opportunity to work with and learn from other similar-sized cities on how to advance housing policy work that results in a more equitable and just Pittsburgh for all.” “Through our first Housing Solutions peer network, we’ve gained incredibly valuable insights into the ways that small and midsize cities are tackling housing instability and a variety of other concerns, particularly during the COVID-19 crisis,” said Martha Galvez, Executive Director of the Housing Solutions Lab. “Working with Pittsburgh and the other network cities has helped lay the foundation for our new Housing Solutions Lab, which will take the next step to identify and share the most successful policy solutions that are steeped in values of racial equity, cross-sector collaboration, and elevating the voice of marginalized communities.” The Housing Solutions Lab provides the following services to cities: 1. Policy and Data Analysis: Helping cities to use data to design, adapt and monitor local housing programs and policies 2. Policy Evaluations: Developing and conducting evaluations to examine the effectiveness of local housing policies and programs  3. Technical Assistance: Assisting cities with real-time policy and program implementation 4. Peer Support: Facilitating connections between city leaders to foster shared learning, support, and innovation  5. Dissemination: Collaborating with localities to develop and disseminate policy products that highlight successful strategies and outcomes   NYU Furman Center Media Contact: Charles McNallycharles.mcnally@nyu.edu917-512-1571About the NYU Furman Center: The NYU Furman Center advances research and debate on housing, neighborhoods, and urban policy. Established in 1995, it is a joint center of the New York University School of Law and the Wagner Graduate School of Public Service. More information can be found at furmancenter.org and @FurmanCenterNYU. About the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation: For more than 45 years the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation has worked to improve health and health care. We are working alongside others to build a national Culture of Health that provides everyone in America a fair and just opportunity for health and well-being. For more information, visit www.rwjf.org. Follow the Foundation on Twitter at www.rwjf.org/twitter or on Facebook at www.rwjf.org/facebook. | 16/6/2021 10:22:10 |
| URA to Launch CRiB in Partnership with PNC Foundation | PITTSBURGH, PA (June 17, 2021) Funding from the PNC Foundation will be used for a pilot loan program designed to sustain and stimulate the growth of childcare businesses in the City of Pittsburgh.PNC Foundation gave $6.5 million to the Urban Redevelopment Authority of Pittsburgh (URA) last year to support business growth in the City, with a portion earmarked specifically for childcare businesses. The URA board will vote today to use $800,000 of that funding to create a Pittsburgh Childcare Reinvestment Business Fund – called CRiB – providing $25,000 in forgivable loans for childcare businesses.“We are pleased to support the URA and their work to establish the Pittsburgh Childcare Reinvestment Business Fund,” said Sally McCrady, chair and president of the PNC Foundation. “The pandemic has left the childcare industry and early learning at a critical crossroads. Research shows pre-K children benefit from the socialization and hands-on activities central to early learning curriculums found in many childcare programs. The fund is a welcome step in addressing this issue and is sure to have a widespread impact on the wellbeing of our community.”Launching June 23, 2021, the loan program will be paired with additional technical assistance opportunities for childcare businesses through partnerships with Chatham University’s Center for Women’s Entrepreneurship and Trying Together.The pilot program will be part of Invest PGH, a new nonprofit and Community Development Financial Institution (CDFI) organization that aids small business and affordable housing initiatives throughout the City of Pittsburgh. | 17/6/2021 10:13:54 |
| Milling and Paving to Resume Monday | PITTSBURGH, PA (June 17, 2021) The City of Pittsburgh Department of Mobility and Infrastructure (DOMI) is continuing its 2021 milling and paving program next week. Streets being milled include: Onondago St, Styr Way, Billiard Way, Munhall Rd, Crombie St, Mt. Royal Rd, Delehanty St, Chambers Way, Ilion St, Kaercher St, Rosemore St, Waldeck St, Shields St, Randall St, Lydia St, Kilbourne St, Melbourne St, Hoosac St, Path St, California Ave and Beaver Ave. Streets being paved include: Grandview Ave, Bausman St, Munhall Rd, Shady Ave, Junius St, Rosemore St, Kilbourne St, Melbourne St and Onondago St. The full paving schedule for the week, including further details on streets and intersections, is available here. This year the City is investing nearly $16 million in the street resurfacing program, which supports asphalt street resurfacing, ADA curb ramp upgrades on paved streets, and repair of concrete, brick and block stone streets throughout Pittsburgh.      Approximately 34 miles of streets will be resurfaced this year. Additional mileage will be resurfaced through cooperation agreements with local public utilities. Mechanical patching will improve many miles more by addressing particular trouble spots on otherwise acceptable street corridors.    While many residents are continuing to work from home, the City will be continuing extra efforts to notify residents to move their vehicles to enable street resurfacing to proceed. Streets scheduled for resurfacing will be posted weekly on DOMI’s website and will be publicized through city social media channels. | 17/6/2021 13:23:01 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Thursday, June 17, 2021 | No public events scheduled. | 17/6/2021 08:34:33 |
| URA and FNB Partner to Provide $1 Million to Support Avenues of Hope Small Contractor Program | PITTSBURGH, PA (June 17, 2021) First National Bank, the largest subsidiary of F.N.B. Corporation (NYSE: FNB), is providing a generous $1 million capital investment to the Urban Redevelopment Authority (URA) to help support small contractors in the Hill District through the new Avenues of Hope Small Contractor Line of Credit program.Mayor William Peduto and the URA launched Avenues of Hope in October to reprioritize business district investments in diverse city neighborhoods. Through the new Small Contractor Line of Credit program, lines of credit of up to $100,000 will be available. This will be the first line of credit program offered through the URA, and will give the agency a valuable new tool to support small contractors seeking to improve struggling neighborhood business districts.“FNB is pleased to support the URA and its Avenues of Hope program as part of our continuing commitment to promote small business growth in our communities,” said Vincent J. Delie, Jr., Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of F.N.B. Corporation and First National Bank.The URA board is set to approve FNB’s investment in the program at its meeting today. | 17/6/2021 09:58:24 |
| City Secures Former Veterans Administration Site | PITTSBURGH, PA (June 21, 2021) The City of Pittsburgh has finalized the acquisition – for free – of the former VA Highland Drive campus in Lincoln-Lemington, with plans to create a regional Public Safety training site and introduce stormwater management solutions to the flood-plagued Washington Boulevard corridor. The moves will also allow the City to save millions of taxpayer dollars on leases of private properties used by the Department of Public Safety and to move key City-owned properties and parcels back onto tax rolls. Placing the Public Safety facilities on Highland Drive would allow the City to move out of properties it owns on the Strip District riverfront and the Emergency Medical Services headquarters in Shadyside; opt out of leases for Police Headquarters and the Police Training Academy in Chateau and Allegheny West; and relocate Public Safety facilities on Washington Boulevard to make way for stormwater remediation efforts in the corridor.  Renovations at the VA buildings will be net zero (meaning they have efficiencies making them produce as much energy as they consume), following City building requirements in 2019 legislation introduced by the Peduto Administration. “This site provides us with a historic opportunity that we cannot let pass us by,” Mayor William Peduto said. “We can advance sustainable green development in the city, provide a solution to decades of intractable flood mitigation challenges in the area, offer the best in life-saving training to personnel from around the region, and expand the City’s tax base.”  The Veterans Administration vacated the Highland Drive Medical Center property in 2013 and announced plans to dispose of it in 2017. The City submitted plans to the General Services Administration the following year to take it over, for free, the following year. Federal government agencies approved its use by the City as a Public Safety complex and signed a Memorandum of Understanding on transferring the property early this year. The City plans to use it as a state of the art Public Safety Training Academy; a Public Safety Department and Emergency Management headquarters; a home for police K-9 and mounted units; storage of emergency response and winter weather response vehicles and equipment; and other uses. Long-term financing plans for the training center are listed in the City’s 2021 Capital Budget. | 21/6/2021 09:39:51 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Monday, June 21, 2021 | Meeting with Consul General of the NetherlandsTime: 3:00 p.m. | 21/6/2021 08:54:27 |
| City Announces Summer Special Event and Recreation Activities Update | PITTSBURGH, PA (June 22, 2021) The City of Pittsburgh Department of Public Safety Office of Special Events and Department of Parks and Recreation (Citiparks) have announced updates for summer programs and operations.  The Dollar Bank Cinema in the Park will return starting with “Spiderman: Far from Home (PG13)” at Flagstaff Hill on July 7. Movies begin at dusk and full schedules and locations will be available here.  Summer concerts will return with: - Stars at Riverview Jazz Series with “Reggie Watkins Quartet” on July 10. - Bach, Beethoven &amp; Brunch at Mellon Park with “Aeolian Winds of Pittsburgh” on July 11. - Reservoir of Jazz at Highland Park on August 1 with performers to be announced.  The City anticipates reopening the following Community Recreation Centers for limited programming and activities starting June 28, 2021, with capacity limits and other pubilc health efforts posted at each location: - Ormsby, Brookline, Magee and Warrington Rec Centers will operate summer camp activities and the weight/fitness room areas only for general public use during the hours of 9 a.m. - 6 p.m.   - Phillips Rec Center will operate summer camp activities and the weight/fitness room areas only for general public use during the hours of 12:30 p.m. - 6 p.m.   - West Penn Rec Center will operate for gym and weight room only for general public use during the hours of 10 a.m. - 7 p.m.  - Jefferson Rec will operate only it's summer camps during the hours of 9 a.m. - 3 p.m.    - Arlington Recreation Center will be activated later this summer for special sports programs and utilization of the gym.   - Ammon and Paulson Recreation Centers remain closed for indoor programming due to ongoing facility renovation work. Citiparks will continue grab-n-go meal distribution for youth through Summer Food Service Program meals at 14 Citiparks locations and 34 partner locations. Citiparks locations include:  - Recreation Centers: Ammon, Brookline, Jefferson, Magee, Ormsby, Phillips and Warrington - Spray Parks: Arlington, Beechview, Mellon, Paulson and Troy Hill - Pools: Ream - Playgrounds: Anderson (Schenley Park) The full list of Summer Food Service Program locations can be found here. Senior grab-n-go lunches will continue at Beechview, Brighton Heights, Glen Hazel, Greenfield, Hazelwood, Homewood, Lawrenceville, Mt Washington, Sheraden, South Side and West End Healthy Active Living (Senior) Centers. Healthy Active Living Centers will remain closed for other activities with more information coming soon. Information about summer special events and recreation activities can be found on the Citiparks and Office of Special Events websites. Residents can follow Citiparks on Facebook and Twitter and Special Events on Facebook and Twitter for additional news and updates. | 22/6/2021 14:06:30 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Tuesday, June 22, 2021 | No public events scheduled. | 22/6/2021 09:09:31 |
| City of Pittsburgh to Host Independence Day Celebration and Fireworks at Point State Park | PITTSBURGH, PA (June 23, 2021) Mayor William Peduto today announced details of the City of Pittsburgh’s 2021 Independence Day Celebration taking place Sunday July 4 from 6 – 10 p.m. in Point State Park. The July 4 festivities will feature bands, food vendors, the ALCOSAN Family Activities Area and other entertainment. Fireworks will illuminate the skyline beginning at twilight. “It's time to get together and celebrate our life and independence – together,” said Mayor William Peduto. “After a year of suffering there is no better way to do that than joining our neighbors for the most Pittsburgh of all things, which of course is a giant fireworks display.” The day’s main attraction, the spectacular Independence Day Fireworks presented by Pyrotecnico, will begin at 9:35 pm. Tune in to 100.1 FM KDKA for a live broadcast of a 25-minute fireworks soundtrack paying tribute to Independence Day. Viewers can watch the celebration from home live on WPXI-TV. CITY OF PITTSBURGH INDEPENDENCE DAY CELEBRATION HIGHLIGHTS 1:00 – 5:30 p.m.      Fort Pitt Museum family-friendly activities 6:30 – 8:30 p.m.      ALCOSAN Family Activities Area 6:30 p.m.                 East Wind Symphonic Band 7:15 p.m.                 Munhall Community Band 8:00 p.m.                 River City Brass 9:35 p.m.                 Independence Day Fireworks presented by Pyrotechnico* *simulcast on WPXI-TV and 100.1 FM KDKAAttendees will be required to pass through security checkpoints when entering Point State Park. Additional safety information and a list of prohibited items is on the event website. The City of Pittsburgh and its Office of Special Events thank the following organizations for sponsoring the Independence Day festivities: Pyrotechnico, ALCOSAN, National Flag Foundation, WPXI-TV and Audacy Pittsburgh (100.1 FM and AM 1020 KDKA, 100.7 Star, 93.7 The Fan and Y-108). For more information, visit pittsburghpa.gov/July4 , follow @PghEventsOffice on Twitter, LIKE @PghEventsOffice on Facebook or call the Special Events hotline at 412-255-2493. | 23/6/2021 13:41:35 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Wednesday, June 23, 2021 | Speaking at Concordia &amp; Rubicon's Sustainability Today Partnership Accelerator Online EventTime: 10 a.m. | 23/6/2021 08:31:15 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Thursday, June 24, 2021 | Allegheny Overlook Kick-Off EventTime: 5:30 p.m.Location: Fort Duquesne Blvd | 24/6/2021 08:24:26 |
| City of Pittsburgh Launches Community Engagement Website for Condemned Structures | PITTSBURGH, PA (June 24, 2021) – The City of Pittsburgh Department of Permits, Licenses and Inspections (PLI) has launched a new interactive website on EngagePGH for the city’s condemned properties. Residents can view all condemned structures and key information about them as well as provide comments on specific structures. Community feedback collected from the site will be used with PLI’s internal condemned properties scoring system to prioritize demolitions and better account for community and funding needs. “We are dedicated to ensuring continued safety in our built environment. In 2020, PLI performed 29 emergency demolitions to imminently dangerous properties,” said PLI Director Sarah Kinter. “PLI will continue to immediately demolish the most dangerous structures in the city. This webpage provides us with an opportunity to incorporate public feedback into our decisions to prioritize demolition of condemned structures that are not imminently dangerous, but are unsafe and effect the wellbeing of neighbors.”Currently, there are more than 1,900 condemned properties across the city that require ongoing assessment and monitoring. In June 2020, PLI launched a new code enforcement system in OneStopPGHwhich allows them to automate inspection cycles and adopt a new scoring system to standardize and accurately compare condemned structures. Within the last year, PLI's team of Vacant Property Inspectors have scored over 1,600 of the current condemned properties.The scoring system, which ranges from one to 60, allows the City to appropriately identify the worst structures, anticipate the need and costs for annual demolitions, and provide other agencies with information about structures that can be put back into productive use. It’s based on structural factors such as major and minor damage to key building elements and additional conditions including the structure’s proximity to the right of way and to adjacent occupied structures. The City’s Department of City Planning (DCP) has also scored condemned buildings to identify and save key structures that are historically and architecturally significant.For more information, visit the EngagePGH site. | 24/6/2021 12:10:37 |
| Milling and Paving Resume Monday | PITTSBURGH, PA (June 25, 2021) The City of Pittsburgh Department of Mobility and Infrastructure (DOMI) is continuing its 2021 milling and paving program next week. Streets being milled include: Sherwood Ave (Sheraden Carnegie Library of Pittsburgh), Kearns Ave, California Ave, Columbus St, Benton Ave, Weitz Way and Marmaduke Park.Streets being paved include: Kilbourne St, Ilion St, Chambers Way, Randall St, Kaercher St, Lydis St, Melbourne St, Hoosac, Delehanty St, Path St, Junius St, Kearns Ave, Kohlmeyers Lane, 45th St, Sherwood Ave (Sheraden Carnegie Library of Pittsburgh) and Lakewood St.The full paving schedule for the week, including further details on streets and intersections, is available here. This year the City is investing nearly $16 million in the street resurfacing program, which supports asphalt street resurfacing, ADA curb ramp upgrades on paved streets, and repair of concrete, brick and block stone streets throughout Pittsburgh. Approximately 34 miles of streets will be resurfaced this year. Additional mileage will be resurfaced through cooperation agreements with local public utilities. Mechanical patching will improve many miles more by addressing particular trouble spots on otherwise acceptable street corridors.    While many residents are continuing to work from home, the City will be continuing extra efforts to notify residents to move their vehicles to enable street resurfacing to proceed. Streets scheduled for resurfacing will be posted weekly on DOMI’s website and will be publicized through city social media channels. | 25/6/2021 11:20:27 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Friday, June 25, 2021 | No public events scheduled. | 25/6/2021 07:42:06 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Monday, June 28, 2021 | No public events scheduled. | 28/6/2021 08:39:11 |
| Mayor Peduto Announces City Spending Plan for $335M in Federal Relief Funding | PITTSBURGH, PA (June 28, 2021) Mayor William Peduto announced today spending allocations for the $335 million in relief funding the City of Pittsburgh received as part of the American Rescue Plan.The Office of Management and Budget (OMB) worked closely with City Council’s Joint Pittsburgh Recovery Task Force, made up of representatives from the Mayor’s Office and City Council, to create a spending plan that prioritizes equity, sustainability, job creation and neighborhoods. Allocations were determined using the city’s P4 principles framework of investing in people, planet, place and performance to develop a plan that addresses the needs of communities, addresses city revenue shortfalls, resumes projects halted during the pandemic and benefits residents, businesses and employees.   Funding for the new spending initiative comes from American Rescue Plan as well as additional budget re-opening shifts of existing dollars. It is being introduced to City Council tomorrow.  Some highlights of Mayor’s Peduto’s spending plan include:  Investment in People ($66 million)  - $21 Million for OwnPGH to promote affordable home ownership in Pittsburgh.   - $5 Million to create a fund at the Urban Redevelopment Authority to protect existing affordable housing.  - $6 Million to expand the City of Pittsburgh’s lot maintenance program through a workforce development initiative.  - $10 Million to expand our Office of Community Health &amp; Safety - Allegheny Health Network co-responder model to all six zones 24/7.  - $2 Million for a new fund to support local artists who experienced financial hardship during COVID and to bring music and art into public events and facilities across Pittsburgh.  - $2.5 Million to fund a Guaranteed Basic Income Pilot.  - $19 Million to fund improvements at CitiParks Recreation Centers across Pittsburgh to include Rec2Tech build out, HVAC improvements and sustainability upgrades.  - $2 Million for community public safety facilities to respond to rise in violent crime.  - Creation of a new grant program to support youth sports organizations in the City of Pittsburgh. Investment in Planet ($37.5 million)  - $10 Million to create a new program at the Urban Redevelopment Authority to help low to moderate income homeowners make improvements to their homes to weatherize, lower utility bills and promote renewable energy uses.  - $20 Million for removal of lead from our water and paint.  - $7.5 Million for the purchase of electric vehicles and electric vehicle infrastructure for the City of Pittsburgh’s fleet. Investment in Place ($58 million) - $7 Million of funding for the Mayor’s 7 Avenues of Hope ($1 million each).  - $10 Million to launch the reconstructed Land Bank at the Urban Redevelopment Authority.  - $5 Million to create a fund at the Urban Redevelopment Authority to support community land trusts.  - $2 Million to close the funding gap on affordable housing development at Gladstone School in Hazelwood.  - $1 Million to the redevelopment of 1600 Broadway Avenue in Beechview.  - $2 Million for the redevelopment of Lexington Technology Park - Homewood Avenue.  - $1 Million for the Jasmine Nyree Campus in Sheraden.  - $3.5 Million to forgive small business loans from the Urban Redevelopment Authority during the pandemic.  - $1 Million to help make businesses make their “streeteries” permanent.  - $12 Million to fund the addition of 8,000 new LED streetlights that were found to be missing during the light equity analysis.  - $2 Million to complete the funding for new Davis Avenue Bridge in Brighton Heights for bikes &amp; pedestrians.  - $2.5 Million to complete the funding for the North Avenue Streetscape Rehabilitation.- $1 Million to complete the funding for new sidewalks on Irvine Street in Hazelwood.  - $3 Million to complete design and engineering on public step projects to make shovel ready for the infrastructure bill.  - $2.2 Million to complete design and engineering on Hill District Corridor Improvements to make shovel ready for the infrastructure bill.  - $2.8 Million to complete funding for the final segment for the conversion of Penn Circle back to two-way. Investment in Performance ($172 million) - $22 Million to restore critical positions cut from the City of Pittsburgh’s budget.  - $112 Million to avoid all of the potential layoffs outlined in the original 2021 City of Pittsburgh budget.  - $17 Million to restore critical budget items such as the City Cuts program for seniors and the City of Pittsburgh Facility Improvement Fund.  - $6 Million to invest in the City of Pittsburgh’s fleet to respond to the extra wear and tear vehicles received during the pandemic. - $5 Million to undo the City of Pittsburgh’s wage freeze.  - Addresses the lost revenue of the Public Parking Authority of Pittsburgh. | 28/6/2021 11:27:24 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Tuesday, June 29, 2021 | Speaking to Pittsburgh Robotics NetworkTime: 10:30 a.m.Speaking at TechCrunch City Spotlight: PittsburghTime: 2:00 p.m. | 29/6/2021 09:09:32 |
| Mayor Peduto Joins Robotics and Technology Leaders to Celebrate Region's Successes | PITTSBURGH, PA (June 29, 2021) Today, Mayor William Peduto will be meeting with local robotics industry leaders and TechCrunch at two events to discuss the technology ecosystem in Pittsburgh. Mayor Peduto will be attending the Pittsburgh Robotics Network event in Lawrenceville this morning and will be a keynote speaker at TechCrunch’s virtual City Spotlight: Pittsburgh at 2:00 p.m. Growth in the technology sector has thrived over the last decade, with the Pittsburgh Robotics Network reporting that there are over 7,000 jobs in the robotics industry in Pittsburgh and over $3.4 billion invested in local robotics companies. With Pittsburgh as the home for over 105 robotics organizations, the region is leading the United States in basic science, research and development in robotics and artificial intelligence and has emerged as an opportunity hub for technology companies, startups and talent.  “As our technology economy grows stronger, our city grows stronger. We retain the talent our universities attract, we emerge as a leader in research and development globally, we attract investment into our communities, we support our locally-owned and small businesses and we create the opportunity to educate and train the next generation of Pittsburghers to participate in the technology sector,” said Mayor Peduto.  Supporting the technology ecosystem has been part of Pittsburgh’s economic development strategy.  Mayor Peduto has forged partnerships with leaders in several industries including government, technology, health care, universities, corporations and philanthropies to promote equitable growth of the technology sector for today and tomorrow’s Pittsburgh. This includes Pittsburgh-based startup Duolingo,  Pittsburgh’s first venture capital-funded $1 billion startup, which filed to go public yesterday.  To encourage the growth of tech talent within our communities, the Peduto Administration piloted and implemented Rec2Tech, a program for community recreation centers to use city resources to increase access to technology for young people and provide them learning opportunities to create career paths in innovation and technology.  In an effort to further support the startup community, Mayor Peduto also created an incubator within city hall by launching PGH Lab, which is currently hosting its sixth cohort. Local startups are paired with city departments or authorities to test new products and provide innovative solutions that improve the efficiency, transparency, sustainability and inclusivity of government services. PGH Lab 6.0 focused on equity and community-impact applications and will be hosting a virtual company showcase tomorrow at 11 a.m. PGH Lab is part of the city’s Inclusive Innovation initiative, celebrating and encouraging diversity and innovation in the technology and Pittsburgh community. | 29/6/2021 10:19:11 |
| City Creates Grant Program to Support Community Youth Sports Programs | PITTSBURGH, PA (June 29, 2021) Mayor William Peduto and City Council President Theresa Kail-Smith have proposed the creation of a new Youth Sports Grant Program that will allow neighborhood and community sports organizations to apply for funding.  Many communities organize sport programs to provide development opportunities for young people, but managing youth sport programming can be costly. Grant funding from this program can be used to fund operations and purchasing of equipment and uniforms. The program is budgeted to have $150,000 a year available for applications from community sports organizations and will be managed by the Department of Parks and Recreation.  “I’d like to thank Mayor Peduto, Chief of Staff Dan Gilman and Office of Management and Budget Director Kevin Pawlos for committing this investment for our youth around the city and my colleagues on City Council for their anticipated support,” said Council President Kail-Smith. “I also want to thank our coaches, families and volunteers who are doing important work for our young people and strengthening our communities by giving them the opportunity to be part of a team and who will now have additional city resources to continue their great work.” | 29/6/2021 12:00:26 |
| City Announces Four Neighborhood Electronic and Household Hazardous Waste Collection Events This Summer | PITTSBURGH, PA (June 30, 2021) The City of Pittsburgh announced today it will host eight electronic waste and household hazardous waste neighborhood collection events on Saturdays this summer and fall. Electronic waste and household hazardous waste includes hard to recycle materials like televisions, computers, paints, batteries, light bulbs, chemicals and more.  The events are scheduled from 9 a.m. to 1 p.m. and advance registration is required. Registration for a five minute appointment can be done online by selecting the preferred event at ecsr.net/pittsburgh-recycling or by calling the City’s 311 line.  The Department of Public Works Environmental Services Division worked with City Councilmembers to identify locations for neighborhood events throughout regions of the city. The first four scheduled events are:  - July 10th 2021 in Overbrook  at Carmalt School, 1550 Breining St, Pittsburgh, PA 15234  - July 31st 2021 in Perry Hilltop at Pittsburgh Project, 2706 N Charles St, Pittsburgh, PA 15214 (Fowler Park Parking lot) - August 7th 2021 in Squirrel Hill at Schenley Park, Prospect Dr, Pittsburgh, PA 15217 - August 21st 2020 in Perry Hilltop at Pittsburgh Project 2706 N Charles St, Pittsburgh, PA 15214 (Fowler Park Parking lot) Each event can serve up to 240 appointments. Participants are required to drive to the event and must remain in their car for a contactless drop off. Social distancing and face masks are encouraged.  Fees apply to most items although the City subsidizes these fees to make them more affordable. Accepted materials and fees can be found here.  The Clean Pittsburgh Commission is sponsoring financial assistance, available to all by selecting the option to apply for financial assistance when scheduling the appointment either online or over the phone. Additional details about fall collection events in Shadyside, Arlington, Lawrenceville and Crafton Heights will be available later this summer. | 30/6/2021 13:51:52 |
| City Offices Closed and Refuse Collection Suspended Monday July, 5 in Observance of Independence Day | PITTSBURGH, PA (June 30, 2021) City of Pittsburgh offices will be closed and refuse collection will be suspended on Monday, July 5 in observance of Independence Day.   There will be no refuse, bulk waste or recycling collection on Monday and collection will be pushed back one day for the rest of the week. If your scheduled day of collection is Monday, you will be serviced Tuesday, July 6;  those usually serviced Tuesday will be serviced Wednesday; and so on through the week.     The following is the holiday schedule for Parks and Recreation facilities:  HEALTHY ACTIVE LIVING CENTERS (Senior Centers)CLOSED Grab ‘n Go meal distribution for seniors will provide extra meals on Friday, July 2 and the regular distribution schedule will resume on Wednesday, July 7.   RECREATION CENTERSCLOSED on Monday, July 5  The Summer Food Service Program for youth at Citiparks locations and sponsored sites will resume on Tuesday, July 6. MELLON PARK TENNIS CENTERCLOSED on Sunday, July 4  SPRAY PARKSOPEN SCHENLEY PARK SKATING RINKClosed for the season  OLIVER BATH HOUSERemains closed POOLSWill be open on July 5 for the following hours:- 12pm-1pm - Adult Lap Swim- 1pm-5:45pm - Open SwimThis press release was updated on July 2 at 9:02 pm to add pool operation hours. | 30/6/2021 12:58:14 |
| City Communications Director Leaves for New Role | PITTSBURGH, PA (June 30, 2021) City of Pittsburgh Communications Director Timothy McNulty is leaving his City government position for a similar role with the Pittsburgh Penguins. Today is his final day with the City. McNulty joined Mayor William Peduto’s administration in March 2014 after 18 years covering politics and government for the Pittsburgh Post-Gazette. Assistant Communications Director Molly Onufer will move to the role of Communications Director and be the main point of contact for the news media. | 30/6/2021 17:57:20 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Wednesday, June 30, 2021 | Pittsburgh Parks Conservancy and Citizens Summer at the Square Kick-Off EventTime: 12:00 p.m. Location: Mellon Square, Sixth Avenue, Downtown Presenting Proclamation for Congo Independence DayTime: 1:00 p.m.Location: Mayor's Conference Room | 30/6/2021 09:17:55 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Thursday, July 1, 2021 | No public events scheduled. | 1/7/2021 09:18:33 |
| City and Partners Launch Childcare Quality Fund to Support Childcare Facilities | PITTSBURGH, PA (July 1, 2021) The City of Pittsburgh has announced the launch of their Childcare Quality Fund, which will allow licensed childcare centers in the city to apply for grant funding for facility and program improvements. The funding will allow childcare facilities to implement strategic investments that can help improve their state Keystone STARS quality rating while minimizing incurred debt.  The total funding for the program is $2 million and childcare businesses and non-profits are eligible to apply for funding based on their size. Family and group childcare homes are eligible for up to $12,500; childcare centers licensed for under 100 children are eligible for up to $25,000; and centers licensed for over 100 children are eligible for up to $50,000.  Expenses eligible under the Childcare Quality Fund include facility improvements such as roof, window, HVAC, plumbing, flooring replacements, mold and lead testing and remediation, safety infrastructure like fire suppression systems, sprinklers and security cameras/systems, playground surfacing or equipment and fencing installation, repairs and retrofitting facilities to expand capacity.  Childcare centers can also apply for program improvement expenses like curriculum materials, child assessment instruments, professional development, literacy, gross motor, art, STEM or dramatic play materials, child-sized furniture, child safety materials, hand washing sinks and other health and safety materials.  The launch of the fund comes just after the City announced the Childcare Reinvestment Business Fund (CRiB), administered by Invest PGH with generous funding from the PNC Foundation. This pilot program will provide loans between $5,000 and $20,000 for childcare businesses to assist with working capital expenses like payroll, enrollment subsidies, leasehold improvements, software, and other eligible business operations expenses.   Childcare businesses are able to apply for assistance from both programs as the funding is specified for different uses. The main difference is that the Childcare Quality Fund grants are to be used to improve the quality of services and facilities while CRiB loans are to be used to pay for business operations. Additional information for both programs is available here.   The Childcare Quality Fund was developed in partnership between the Mayor’s Office of Equity, Pittsburgh City Council Women’s Caucus, Early Learning Resource Center Region 5, Allegheny County, Trying Together and the Alliance for Infants &amp; Toddlers. Applications for the program will be managed by Trying Together and are available here. | 1/7/2021 10:54:42 |
| City of Pittsburgh Selects Art in Parks Expansion Project Coordinator | PITTSBURGH, PA (July 1, 2021) — The City of Pittsburgh’s Department of City Planning Public Art and Civic Design division has selected Casey Droege of Casey Droege Cultural Productions to serve as the project coordinator for the 2021 expansion of the Art in Parks program. As the coordinator, Droege will be responsible for documenting the creation of each new artwork in Pittsburgh’s five regional parks and for coordinating with each of the eight selected artists to ensure they have the tools needed to complete their projects. “This coordinator position provides us with an opportunity to document these artworks in a way that gives voice to our community to tell the history of our city, artists, and public art landscape,” said Sarah Minnaert, Manager of the Public Art and Civic Design division. “We are confident that Casey and her team will tell the story of each of these new artworks in a way that broadens the life cycles of our public spaces and centers public art in our public history.” In addition to documentation, the coordinator will be responsible for overall project management. A project timeline will be determined in partnership with the selected artists, and the coordinator will monitor this timeline to ensure artists remain on track to complete each step: engagement, design, approvals, fabrication, and installation. Additionally, the coordinator will support communications between the artists, City staff, and other key stakeholders as necessary. Droege has experience with managing large-scale projects like this program expansion. Based in Pittsburgh, her artist-run and woman-owned enterprise has completed large-scale artworks across the city, such as the commission of 32 local artists to create original artworks in more than 100 rooms and spaces in the Tryp Hotel in Lawrenceville. Along with her team, Droege strives to build the Pittsburgh’s arts economy through thoughtful public programming and art consulting services. For more information about the program expansion, selected artists, and coordinator, please visit the Art in Parks EngagePGH page https://engage.pittsburghpa.gov/art-parksCasey DroegeImage credit: Ivette SpradlinContact: Audrey Wells Communications Specialist, Department of City Planning Audrey.Wells@pittsburghpa.gov | 1/7/2021 12:29:32 |
| 16 Local Minority Food-Based Entrepreneurs Selected for First Catapult Culinary Business Incubator Program | PITTSBURGH, PA (July 2, 2021) The City of Pittsburgh and Urban Redevelopment Authority of Pittsburgh (URA) have announced that 15 local businesses have been selected to participate in the inaugural Catapult Culinary program cohort through Catapult Greater Pittsburgh (formerly Circles Greater Pittsburgh). Catapult Culinary is a 12-month business incubation program for minority food-based entrepreneurs.The program provides entrepreneurship support to existing minority-owned, food-based businesses, those looking to grow and learn, and/or those who have an interest in starting a food-based business.   The business owners selected for the program are:  - Jewel Edward - Jewel The Baker  - Keyla Cook - Casa Brasil - Glenn Ford - Season With A Reason  - Shauntel Green - Dirty Birds Chicken - Darryl Robinson - Catering - Nckeon Saunders - City Smoke BBQ  - Eric White - PGH_Dumplingz  - Reginald Hudson and Ohnedaruth Swain - Baked Cafe  - Cheyenne Bronzell - Phat Girlz A Cookin  - Terina Hicks - CobblerWorld  - Lisa Freeman - Freeman Family Farm  - Ariana Rueben - Nice to Be Iced Cookies   - Regina Brown - The Fine Feather Inc. - Gracia Younger - GG Pops  - Nicole Porterfield - Cake Nikki P Of the 15 enterprises selected, 10 are woman-owned, one is Latino-owned, 14 are Black-owned, and two are veteran-owned.    “Catapult’s expansion of a premiere program for food-based entrepreneurship is an exciting next step in supporting local minority entrepreneurs,” said Mayor William Peduto. “Eliminating barriers for minority businesses and expanding our food and beverage business community benefits all.”   Cohort participants will receive business and technical training and support, including:    - One-on-one mentoring with knowledgeable business consultants   - Participation in monthly educational seminars focused on business and a specialized food-industry curriculum  - Business tools and resources to help their business grow   - Future access to new and innovative commercial kitchen space with Fulton Commons   - Access to the Food 21 Food and Beverage Network   - Access to food packaging services with Community Kitchen "This expansion of Catapult to include a culinary component is a prime example of how creative partnerships can empower entrepreneurs by providing not just funding, but a whole battery of tools inclusive of resources, training and the technical assistance needed to better ensure success," URA Deputy Executive Director Diamonte Walker said. Catapult Culinary has also launched a partnership with Giant Eagle, who will assist entrepreneurs with food industry expertise and mentoring with the possibility of in-store product placement and pop-up demonstration spaces."We've been conceptualizing the Catapult Culinary program for almost two years now,” said Catapult Greater Pittsburgh Executive Director Tammy Thompson. “Every time we release an application for our Catapult: Startup to Storefront program, we are inundated with applications from food-based businesses. I quickly realized that we needed to develop something specific to that industry and with a strong focus on the local, Black food economy and now we have Catapult: Culinary. I'm very proud of our team and the amazing partners who will be helping us deliver a program that I believe will be life-changing for many entrepreneurs."   “Black entrepreneurs face unique challenges and systemic barriers to small business success,” Lachelle Binion, Director of Entrepreneurship at Catapult Greater Pittsburgh said. “Our goal with the Catapult Greater Pittsburgh - Catapult Culinary program is to continue to create innovative programming, opportunities, and experiences that help break those barriers and ensure systematically disenfranchised communities can achieve economic justice in the area of entrepreneurship and beyond.”   Catapult Culinary is part of Catapult’s entrepreneurial portfolio funded by the PNC Foundation, URA and City of Pittsburgh. | 2/7/2021 12:01:36 |
| Full Closures at Wood Street and Oliver for Crosswalk Repair | PITTSBURGH, PA (July 2, 2021) The City of Pittsburgh’s Department of Mobility and Infrastructure (DOMI) is announcing a full closure at the intersection of Wood Street and Oliver Avenue in the downtown portion of the City beginning Tuesday, July 6 at7:00 a.m. and is expected to last until Friday, July 16 at 4:00 p.m.Traffic will be closed to all vehicles and pedestrians. There will be detour signage directing delivery drivers and parking garage users on accessibility to their destinations. Liberty Avenue, Sixth Avenue, Smithfield Street and Fifth Avenue will be used as detours. Pedestrians will also be advised to detour as necessary.This project will repair or replace crosswalks in this area as necessary. Work will be performed by Frank J. Zottola Construction, Inc.Thank you for your cooperation during this time and we hope there will be only minor inconveniences. If you have questions or require further information regarding this closure you may contact the City’s Response Center by calling 311 or 412-255-2621. | 2/7/2021 11:36:48 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Friday, July 2, 2021 | Press Conference on Holiday Weekend SafetyTime: 10 AMLocation: 5th Floor, City-County Building | 1/7/2021 22:18:09 |
| Office of Community Health and Safety Receives Grant for Neighborhood Health and Safety Academy Pilot | PITTSBURGH, PA (July 6, 2021) The City of Pittsburgh’s new Office of Community Health and Safety (OCHS) has received a $17,500 grant from the Staunton Farm Foundation for the launch of their Neighborhood Health and Safety Academy pilot. This initiative aims to empower communities and neighbors with certifications, resources and skills to play an active role in providing for the wellness, health, safety, and wellbeing of their neighbors.  While community members are intimately familiar with the needs of their neighbors and neighborhoods, knowing the most effective way to meet those needs can be a challenge. The Neighborhood Health and Safety Academy will be a two month training and education series for 20 residents to learn about the regional public safety and social service landscape so they are better equipped to identify and provide support in their communities. The majority of this grant funding will be used to provide stipends to selected attendees to reduce barriers to participation. “Nobody knows the needs of our communities better than our community members,” said Mayor William Peduto. “The Neighborhood Health and Safety Academy will bring together community leaders to share what’s happening in their neighborhoods so we get a better sense of where they need support, but also will provide them the tools, resources, training and connections to services they need to help address neighborhood concerns.”  Participants will learn about the public safety and health continuum of response to a wide range of issues. Educational trainings will focus on areas like housing, substance use, mental health, food security, violence prevention, police reform, criminal justice reform, homelessness, aging and youth. Each session will explore these topics from multiple angles by focusing on history, intersections of policy and practice, and a deep discussion of how each topic interfaces with poverty and systemic racism.  Participants will also have access to free certifications and skills training in CPR, opioid overdose care, naloxone administration, mental health first aid, de-escalation, bleeding control, federal benefits application workshop, public housing application workshop, sexual assault survivor assistance, advocate training, financial empowerment, and motivational interviewing. “Community members have made it clear that they want to have a more direct role in providing for the health, safety, and wellbeing of their neighbors,” said OCHS’ Overdose Prevention Coordinator, Joshua Schneider. “The Neighborhood Health and Safety Academy aims to help residents navigate systems  and  understand how to provide direct support to prevent crises.” The Neighborhood Health and Safety Academy pilot is being designed based on feedback provided by the community through the City’s EngagePGH platform to ensure course material and subject areas are relevant to what neighborhoods are experiencing and content will be guided by a board of community advisors. The 20 members of the Neighborhood Health and Safety Academy inaugural class will become community ambassadors that will continue to work with the Office of Community Health and Safety to address community needs and consult on future initiatives. "Staunton Farm Foundation is committed to building healthy and thriving communities,” said Joni Schwager of Staunton Farm Foundation. “We are excited to support the Office of Community Health and Safety, Pittsburgh residents, and community-based trainers to promote safety and health for everyone." About the Staunton Farm Foundation  The Staunton Farm Foundation is dedicated to improving the lives of people who live with mental illness and substance use disorders. The Foundation works to enhance behavioral health treatment, support, and recovery through grant making to nonprofit organizations in 10 southwestern Pennsylvania counties (Allegheny, Armstrong, Beaver, Butler, Fayette, Greene, Indiana, Lawrence, Washington, and Westmoreland). | 6/7/2021 12:05:07 |
| City of Pittsburgh Receives Grant to Support Civil Rights Historical Research in Manchester | PITTSBURGH, PA (July 6, 2021) — The City of Pittsburgh has received a $17,500 Keystone Historic Preservation Grant from the Pennsylvania Historical &amp; Museum Commission to support civil rights historical research in the Manchester neighborhood to identify and commemorate people and places of historical significance or contribution to the Civil Rights Movement. “This is an amazing opportunity for us to further explore one of Pittsburgh’s beloved historic neighborhoods,” said Director Andrew Dash. “We have received an outpouring of support from City Council members and local organizations like Preservation Pittsburgh and can’t wait to immerse ourselves in Manchester’s rich history.” The Manchester Neighborhood was listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 1975 and was named a City Historic District in 1979. With this grant funding, the Department of City Planning will conduct additional research in the coming months to determine if the neighborhood or properties within the neighborhood could qualify for the National Parks Service’s African American Civil Rights Grants. This research includes recording oral histories from older neighborhood residents, pulling information from the City archive, and gathering other primary and secondary resources such as newspaper articles and photos. "Many residents have families that have lived in Manchester for generations and have important stories to share, particularly as it relates to the Civil Rights Movement. This is a wonderful opportunity to capture their stories, preserve their memories, and celebrate the people who make up this community,” said Manchester Citizens Corporation’s Executive Director LaShawn Burton-Faulk. Keystone Historic Preservation Grants, administered by the Pennsylvania Museum and Historical Commission, provide funding to support projects that identify, preserve, promote and protect historic resources in Pennsylvania that benefit the public and community revitalization. It also supports construction activities at resources listed in or eligible for listing in the National Register of Historic Places. The City is matching the grant amount to dedicate a total amount of $35,000 to this research.  City Planning Contact: Audrey WellsCommunications SpecialistAudrey.Wells@pittsburghpa.gov | 6/7/2021 13:32:20 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Tuesday, July 6, 2021 | No public events scheduled. | 6/7/2021 08:46:29 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Wednesday, July 7, 2021 | Interview with Oliver Morrison, Public SourceTime: 2:00 p.m. | 7/7/2021 08:46:21 |
| 16 Organizations Awarded City Grants for Community-Based Violence Prevention and Intervention Initiatives | PITTSBURGH, PA (July 7, 2021) The City of Pittsburgh’s My Brother’s Keeper (MBK) initiative has announced it has awarded 16 mini-grants to local community groups and projects that are focused on violence reduction and intervention efforts throughout the city.  The mini-grant program offers up to $3,000 in funding to organizations that support neighborhood-centric violence prevention, intervention and street outreach activities that communities have called for and in response to a recent uptick in violence.   The sixteen organizations and programs that are receiving the MBK mini-grants vary by size, scope, location and approach. They are:  - AR3  - Homewood Community Sports  - Iron Cross Ministries  - Larimer Consensus Group  - Lawrenceville United  - Mad Dads - Mount Washington Community Center  - Neighborhood Resilience Project  - Operation Better Block - Ozanam  - Pittsburgh Hardball Academy  - POORLAW  - South Pittsburgh Coalition for Peace - The Foundation of Hope - Voices Against Violence - West End P.O.W.E.R. “Community organizations know how to effectively approach violence reduction and prevention on a community level in their neighborhoods, and we know that $3,000 can go a long way to uplift and further these kinds of activities and initiatives,” said Mayor’s Office Deputy Chief of Staff and Chief Equity Officer Majestic Lane. “We are grateful for their important leadership and partnership to provide community-based resources throughout the city.”  “We are so grateful to have heard from so many organizations and programs for this opportunity and while we could not at this time fund every idea, we are pleased to support this round of awardees. There are more resources and opportunities on the way in the coming weeks and we will continue to communicate them to all applicants and to the broader community,” said Josiah Gilliam, My Brother's Keeper Coordinator. “The stakes are high and we are leaning in with all of the applicants and the ecosystem of supports in the hopes to build peace, prevent violence and save lives. All of our young people and families deserve the chance to live in peace and the opportunity to thrive. I want to thank everyone working in this space for their efforts.”MBK will fund the mini-grants with support from the Heinz Endowments and the POISE Foundation. Additional MBK Grant opportunities will be made available later in the summer. | 7/7/2021 10:46:44 |
| Rialto Street to Close to Vehicular Traffic for Installation of Lowrie Street Steps Starting Monday | PITTSBURGH, PA (July 8, 2021) The City of Pittsburgh’s Department of Mobility and Infrastructure (DOMI) is announcing the full closure of Rialto Street on Monday, July 12 through Wednesday, July 14 for the re-installation of steps between the new Lowrie Street Bridge and Rialto Street. During this time, Rialto Street will be closed to vehicular traffic with the suggested detour route to use Troy Hill Road. Pedestrian access along the Rialto Street steps will be maintained with minimal disruption.Thank you for your cooperation during this time and we hope there will be only minor inconveniences. If you have questions or require further information regarding this closure you may contact the City’s Response Center by calling 311 or 412-255-2621.More detailed information on this project and other DOMI projects can be found here. | 8/7/2021 09:05:19 |
| Governor Wolf Awards City Nearly $400,000 for Traffic Signal Improvement Projects | PITTSBURGH, PA (July 8, 2021) The City of Pittsburgh Department of Mobility and Infrastructure has been awarded over $398,000 for two traffic signal upgrade projects from Governor Wolf on behalf of the Pennsylvania Department of Transportation’s Green Light-Go program. Green Light-Go grants are intended to enhance mobility and efficiency within communities by improving existing traffic signals. DOMI received $266,000 to expand the city’s fiber optic network which will enhance communication between the city’s traffic signals and the city’s traffic management center, which is currently under design.  This will allow the City to provide more responsive service by being able to assess and revise traffic signal timings from a remote location. The East End Signal Retiming Project was awarded $132,000 for the study of existing signal timing and phasing for approximately 50 traffic signals in the East Liberty, Point Breeze, Shadyside, Bloomfield and Friendship neighborhoods. This study will analyze and provide recommendations for adjusted vehicular signal timings, pedestrian signal timings and signal operations which will improve performance and safety for all users.  Improved signal timings also reduce car idling times and emissions.  More information about the grant program can be found here. | 8/7/2021 11:17:11 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Thursday, July 8, 2021 | No public events scheduled. | 8/7/2021 08:55:43 |
| Pittsburgh Launches Innovative Mobility and Equity Initiatives Move PGH and Universal Basic Mobility | PITTSBURGH, PA (July 9, 2021) Mayor William Peduto joined the Department of Mobility and Infrastructure (DOMI) and partners today in launching Move PGH – a first of its kind Mobility as a Service (MaaS) system. Move PGH integrates transit and shared mobility in both physical and digital “mobility hubs” making multimodal travel in the city easy and convenient.  This new system of integrated services enables the second program, a “Universal Basic Mobility” pilot, which will provide up to 100 local low-income residents with monthly transit subscriptions and shared mobility services to address mobility insecurity.  Both programs support the City’s equity principles that all Pittsburghers can easily access fresh food, afford basic transportation and safe travel without reliance on a vehicle.  "Transportation mobility is key to economic mobility and a major determinant in household health, education, and welfare. In Pittsburgh, too many residents are one missed bus or one flat tire away from losing their job or missing a critical appointment,” said Mayor Peduto. “Universal Basic Mobility, using the services of Move PGH, will demonstrate that when people have a readily available transportation back-up plan they are able to access more opportunities and climb the economic ladder.” Move PGH is the first integrated MaaS project in the U.S. to connect traditional and emerging low-cost, shared transportation options into a single, easy to use system. Travelers can find a bus, bike, scooter, moped, car or shared ride using the Transit app or by visiting one of the 50 new mobility hubs throughout the city.  The two initiatives are the result of more than two years of work by a unique public-private-nonprofit partnership. Led by DOMI and built around existing foundational systems of public transit and bike share, Move PGH integrates a coalition of existing and new “last mile” service providers organized by Spin including:  - A new fleet of shared low-speed electric scooters provided by Spin- Expanded carshare services provided by Zipcar- A fleet of electric mopeds by Scoobi- Carpool matching and commuting services facilitated through Waze Carpool- Electric charging for e-scooters provided by Swiftmile- Real time transit and mobility information on TransitScreens at mobility hubs - Trip planning and most trip booking available through TransitIn addition to improving transportation flexibility and resiliency for the general public, the Move PGH Universal Basic Mobility demonstration will specifically test if reliable access to transit and a range of shared mobility options improves employment and health outcomes for low-income workers and their households.  Grant funding will cover the cost of monthly subscriptions to Move PGH partner services for 100 low-income individuals for six months. The Manchester Citizens Corporation will further support these individuals with “trip coaching” to ensure they know how to use the various services. Spin is providing funding to researchers at Carnegie Mellon University and will also be working with Urban Institute to evaluate the demonstration to potentially serve as a national model.  Move PGH and the Universal Basic Mobility demonstration are funded by the Richard King Mellon Foundation and Spin, in partnership with InnovatePGH.  Additional Comments from Move PGH Partners:Bike Share Pittsburgh, Healthy Ride“Healthy Ride has had the honor of working with Pittsburgh communities for the past six years to build a more equitable bike share program,” said David White, Executive Director, Bike Share Pittsburgh. “We’ve more than doubled our network while prioritizing marginalized communities, established a Community Coalition of partners who inform major organizational decisions, and are re-building our system in 2022 to include e-bikes that will make it easier for more people to utilize bikes to get around. Pittsburghers deserve more ways to get around, and we’re excited to be a part of this inclusive network of services. InnovatePGH“InnovatePGH’s mission to accelerate Pittsburgh’s standing as a global innovation hub requires exactly the type of next-generation mobility solutions provided by Move PGH; we are thrilled to be a member of the coalition,” said Sean Luther, Executive Director of InnovatePGH. “As the fiscal sponsor for this exciting public/private partnership, we are particularly grateful to the R.K. Mellon Foundation and the New Urban Mobility Alliance, whose generosity will make getting around our city easier and more joyful for all Pittsburghers.” New Urban Mobility Alliance (NUMO)“NUMO strongly supports innovative and inclusive public-private partnerships like Move PGH,” said Harriet Tregoning, Director of NUMO, “which is unique in its approach to improve access to mobility for Pittsburgh residents by bringing private new mobility services, city agencies and the broader community together. Tackling systemic transportation inequities means addressing how lack of access to transportation options limits access to jobs, inhibits economic mobility and makes it challenging for residents to get where they need to go safely, conveniently and affordably. With the launch of the city’s mobility hub network, and collaborating with public transit, bike share and a diverse suite of mobility services options, Pittsburgh is demonstrating its commitment to building an integrated, multimodal transportation system that is accessible to all and can lead to more equitable outcomes.”Port Authority"Real accessibility means having the freedom to go where you want to go and the ability to get there," said Port Authority CEO Katharine Kelleman. "Port Authority is proud to provide the access, and we're excited for Move PGH, together with Transit, to offer the options. We may be the primary agency that moves our region forward, but we're happy that our riders have so many other reliable transit options that allow them to be able to access our region. Scoobi“We’re looking forward to the addition of new electric form factors and other mobility providers  improving local transportation systems through this collaborative effort to reduce roadway congestion and carbon emissions as Pittsburgh continues its transformation into a more sustainable City,” stated Scoobi Founder, Michael Moran.  “We’re also excited to announce the pending launch of our reengineered mobile app, a 50% increase of our vehicle fleet with the addition of new service areas, and a number programs to increase mobility access to underserved neighborhoods.” Spin"Making mobility cleaner, more equitable, and more reliable is central to Spin's mission; participating in this first-of-its-kind project gets us that much closer,” said Ben Bear, CEO of Spin. “As a Pittsburgh native, it's been rewarding to be able to launch our pilot, and watch this project come to fruition giving residents a suite of options making it as easy to get around without a car as it is with a car. What I’m most proud of is that the City is pioneering a universal basic mobility pilot that will give a group of low-income residents access to Move PGH. We hope Move PGH can become a model for how micromobility operators can collaborate with cities and other mobility companies to better serve the public."Transit“Bringing multiple mobility options together for better trips is what Transit does best, and we’re excited to be part of the City’s launch of Move PGH,” said David Block-Schachter, Chief Business Officer at Transit. “Move PGH brought together all the mobility options available in Pittsburgh, and with the addition of Mobility Hub locations directly on our map, Pittsburghers have everything they need to get the most out of Move PGH.” Waze Carpool“The City of Pittsburgh is helping to create a more mobile, equitable and safe environment for its residents, which is why Waze is excited to partner on the launch of Move PGH. At Waze, we are committed to ending traffic together, and we could not do that without the support of cities like Pittsburgh,” said Adam Fried, Head of Global Partnerships at Waze. “Waze Carpool makes it easy and fun for Wazers to commute together, saving Pittsburghers time and money. Drivers and riders with similar origins and destinations in Pittsburgh will be matched, helping to reduce strain on the roads and the environment throughout the city.” Zipcar“Zipcar is proud to be part of Pittsburgh’s coalition of transportation providers, expanding access to mobility for Pittsburgh residents,” said Justin Holmes, Vice President, Marketing and Public Policy, Zipcar. “We are dedicated to providing convenient and affordable mobility solutions to the city, especially to those without easy access to vehicles or alternative modes of transportation. Whether it be for essential trips or travel beyond the city limits to see family and friends, Zipcar is here to support.” | 8/7/2021 17:42:21 |
| Milling and Paving to Resume Monday | PITTSBURGH, PA (July 9, 2021) The City of Pittsburgh Department of Mobility and Infrastructure (DOMI) is continuing its 2021 milling and paving program next week.  Streets being milled include:  Woodland Ave, Breker St, Enipo Way, Honora Way, Eckert, Stokes Way, Deer Way, Dalton Ave, Zolium St, Cherryland St, Cerise St and Cerise Pl.  Streets being paved include:  Perrott St, Marmaduke St, Maolis Way, Veto St, James St, Marshall Rd, Milroy St, Hemlock St, Woodland Ave, Honora Way, Delehanty St, Sheraden Carnegie Library, Breker St, Enipo Way, Eckert, Stokes Way, Deer Way, Zolium St and Behan St.  The full paving schedule for the week, including further details on streets and intersections, is available here.  This year the City is investing nearly $16 million in the street resurfacing program, which supports asphalt street resurfacing, ADA curb ramp upgrades on paved streets, and repair of concrete, brick and block stone streets throughout Pittsburgh.  Approximately 34 miles of streets will be resurfaced this year. Additional mileage will be resurfaced through cooperation agreements with local public utilities. Mechanical patching will improve many miles more by addressing particular trouble spots on otherwise acceptable street corridors.     While many residents are continuing to work from home, the City will be continuing extra efforts to notify residents to move their vehicles to enable street resurfacing to proceed. Streets scheduled for resurfacing will be posted weekly on DOMI’s website and will be publicized through city social media channels. | 9/7/2021 14:33:54 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Friday, July 9, 2021 | Press Conference to Announce Move PGH and Universal Basic MobilityTime: 11:00 a.m.Location: Allegheny Overlook, Fort Duquesne Boulevard | 9/7/2021 09:08:49 |
| Weekend Closure of the McKinley Park Recycling Drop-Off Center | PITTSBURGH, PA (July 9, 2021) The McKinley Park recycling drop-off located on Bausman Street in Beltzhoover will be closed on weekends starting July 10, 2021 until further notice. This is due to the excessive amount of illegal dumping in and around the recycling drop-off area.  New hours of operation will be Monday through Friday, 7:00 A.M.-1:30 P.M.City residents are still able to drop off household recyclables at these recycling drop-off locations: East End Drop-Off Center (2nd Division)6814 Hamilton Ave Pittsburgh, PA 15208412-665-3609Hazelwood Drop-Off Center (3rd Division)40 Melanchton St Pittsburgh, PA 15207412-422-6524 West End Drop-Off Center (5th Division)1330 Hassler St Pittsburgh, PA 15220412-937-3054 These locations also accept yard debris and tires. Only two (2) tires are allowed per day, per resident, for drop off and must have rims removed beforehand.For yard debris, there is a $21.00 fee for cars, SUVs, pick-ups and vans with trailers. A $52.50 fee for dump trucks or large box vans and prior approval from DPW Director is required. Payments must be made by check or money order only (no cash accepted). Checks are to be made out to "Treasurer, City of Pittsburgh." Additional drop-off centers are open Monday-Friday and may offer Saturday hours. Call each center for details and hours.Strip District (24-hour drop-off)3001 Railroad St Pittsburgh, PA 15201 (entrance under 31st St Bridge)412-255-2631 Construction Junction 9:00 AM to 5:00 PM. (Monday –Saturday) &amp; Sunday 12:00 PM to 3:00 PM. 214 North Lexington St Pittsburgh, PA 15208 Open during regular business hours412-243-5025More information is available on the Environmental Services website. | 9/7/2021 10:05:34 |
| Recycling Collection to Resume Sunday | PITTSBURGH, PA (July 10, 2021) The Department of Public Works Environmental Services is experiencing some delays in recycling collection today for homes that are normally collected on Friday, but were pushed to be collected today because of the holiday. Residents whose recycling has not yet been collected today should leave their materials at the curb as crews will be working to collect them tomorrow, Sunday, July 11. | 10/7/2021 13:19:51 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Monday, July 12, 2021 | No public events scheduled | 12/7/2021 08:54:42 |
| Pittsburgh Police and Office of Community Health and Safety Selected to Develop Crisis Response and Intervention Team Co-Response Model | PITTSBURGH, PA (July 12, 2021) The City of Pittsburgh’s Office of Community Health and Safety (OCHS) and Bureau of Police have been awarded a Crisis Response and Intervention Team (CRIT) technical assistance and training grant from the U.S. Bureau of Justice Administration to further develop an effective model for police to identify what co-responders can best help in emergency situations.  As the City expands its program of co-response to ensure those experiencing behavioral health conditions, like mental health and substance use, and intellectual and development disabilities receive appropriate support for emergency calls, the CRIT program will further equip police officers to call in the right co-responders who can make appropriate referrals. The initiative will increase police’s access to training, technical assistance and other resources to develop and deliver multilayered approaches for people whose needs are outside the realm of traditional law enforcement.  Through this program police will have support to strategically plan crisis response teams, expand relationships with support services and community-based resources, train officers and partners and develop a co-responder academy from national subject matter experts and local partners. "As the Pittsburgh Bureau of Police partners with OCHS to develop co-response, alternative response, diversion and enhanced recruit and officer training, it is essential that officers who are dispatched to calls involving people experiencing mental health, substance use and other challenges are well-supported and trained to safely and compassionately address needs,” said Pittsburgh Police Academy Sergeant Colleen Bristow. OCHS and Police aim to use this opportunity for the following goals: - Police officers and crisis response teams will be able to recognize individuals in crisis, or at risk of experiencing crisis. - Police crisis response teams will ensure that people experiencing a crisis are given proper care, time, and referrals, including the sub-dispatch of right responders. - Police and partners will have meaningful relationships to ensure that individuals with behavioral health conditions and/or intellectual and development disabilities are connected to resources or aid and diverted from the criminal legal system. - The safety for all community members is the top priority for police and staff. “The Pittsburgh Bureau of Police is committed to ensuring safer and more supportive interactions with people experiencing mental health challenges and the development of crisis response policy and practice that benefits community stakeholders in general,” said Police Employee Wellness and Resource coordinator Officer Matt Schlick.  Pittsburgh was one of three cities selected to be a part of this Bureau of Justice Assistance’s Academic Training to Inform Police Responses initiative and the only city selected for enhanced technical assistance. The initiative is managed by the University of Cincinnati School of Criminal Justice with its partners Policy Research Associates, The Arc of the United States’ National Center on Criminal Justice and Disability and the International Association of Chiefs of Police. | 12/7/2021 12:47:51 |
| City Receives Additional $7 Million for COVID-19 Emergency Rental Assistance Program | PITTSBURGH, PA (July 12, 2021) The City of Pittsburgh has received an additional $7 million for the Emergency Rental Assistance Program to assist those impacted financially from the COVID-19 crisis.  The City of Pittsburgh and Allegheny County established the program in partnership with Action Housing and Dollar Energy in February after receiving federal funding from the Consolidated Appropriations Act. The County originally received $27 million and the City $8.9 million in U.S. Treasury grants from the Act that was signed into law in December. The additional $7 million in U.S. Treasury grants would assist households having trouble paying rents and utilities related to the pandemic.  The grant funding can be used for rent, rental arrears, utilities, utility arrears, and other housing expenses resulting from the pandemic for households meeting certain income criteria. The assistance can last up to 12 months plus an additional three months, if necessary, to ensure housing stability. The application and additional information about the program are available here. | 12/7/2021 10:03:14 |
| Street Closures for Allegheny Circle Phase 2 Construction | PITTSBURGH, PA (July 12, 2021) The City of Pittsburgh’s Department of Mobility and Infrastructure (DOMI) will be closing a section of Sandusky Street and Stockton Avenue, as well as North Federal Street, starting Wednesday July 14, 2021. It is anticipated that the closures will be in place until late August or early September 2021.The detour routes are as follows:- Sandusky Street from E. Lacock Street to S. Commons: Detoured using East Lacock Street and South Federal Street- Stockton Avenue from Anderson Street from Anderson to Sandusky Street: Detoured using Cedar Avenue and East Ohio Street- North Federal Street from W. Montgomery to N. Commons: Detoured using East North Avenue, Cedar Avenue and East Ohio StreetHours of construction will generally occur during the week, Monday through Thursday, 7:30 a.m. to 5:30 p.m. One lane of traffic along N, S, E, and W Commons will be maintained throughout the construction project. Detours will be implemented over the course of the project for East Ohio Street, South Federal Street, and Ridge Avenue.There will be temporary ADA ramps constructed outside the work limits at each intersection as the work progresses. Traffic will be maintained with restrictions while work is completed. Please be aware of flaggers and adhere to changing traffic pattern for motorists, bicycles, and pedestrians.The purpose of the project is the conversion of Allegheny Commons (North, South, East and West Commons Streets) from one way to bidirectional traffic with bicycle lanes.Thank you for your cooperation during this time and we hope there will be only minor inconveniences. If you have questions or require further information regarding this closure you may contact the City’s Response Center by calling 311 or 412-255-2621. For more information about the project please see the project fact sheet located here https://pittsburghpa.gov/domi/current-projects. | 12/7/2021 17:39:01 |
| Mayor Peduto Joins Global Leaders for Climate Change | PITTSBURGH, PA (July 13, 2021) This morning, Mayor William Peduto attended the Global Covenant of Mayors for Climate and Energy (GCOM) Board Meeting. Mayor Peduto is the second North American representative on the nine-member global board. GCOM represents over 10,000 cities and regions around the world including over 500 cities In the United States alone. The work of GCOM is critical as only though local initiatives can national and international climate and sustainability goals be met. GCOM coordinates and advises the necessary coordination for local governments on a global basis. The GCOM Board met today to discuss preparations for the United Nations Climate Change Conference (COP26), which will be held in Glasgow, Scotland in November. Mayor Peduto will be the representative for mayors in both the United States and Canada at the conference in order to promote a global environmental agenda through local action to help meet and exceed the goals laid out in the Paris Agreement. Mayor Peduto is also a board member for ICLEI, a global network local governments committed to sustainable development, which works in coordination with GCOM in addressing equity and environmental justice locally and globally. | 13/7/2021 09:14:54 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Tuesday, July 13, 2021 | Global Covenant of Mayors Board MeetingTime: 8 a.m.Upper Hill Housing Development Walking Tour with Pittsburgh Housing Development Corporation and Schenley Heights CollaborativeTime: 2 p.m. | 13/7/2021 08:55:35 |
| City, Pittsburgh Housing Development Corporation and Partners Showcase Affordable Housing Development Projects in the Upper Hill District Neighborhood | PITTSBURGH, PA (July 13, 2021) Mayor William Peduto joined other elected officials and the Urban Redevelopment Authority (URA), Pittsburgh Housing Development Corporation (PHDC) and Schenley Heights Collaborative (SHC) for a walking tour of PHDC’s home rehabilitation projects in the Upper Hill District. The tour featured 15 homes along Anaheim, Cherokee, Camp and Shawnee Streets and Bryn Mawr Road.  PHDC has been working with SHC, a local community group, to identify and complete housing projects in the Upper Hill to preserve a balance of market rate homes, rental units and for-sale houses affordable to residents at or below 120% of the area median income (AMI). In total, the PHDC has developed 21 affordable homes in the Upper Hill investing $4.6 million, with current plans for an additional 11 units in the neighborhood.  “The work of the PHDC and the SHC on these projects shows how we can be successful in creating opportunity and meeting our neighborhoods’ needs when the community can work with government agencies to realize their vision,” said Mayor Peduto. “We have been able to put the community in the driver’s seat to develop affordable options in their neighborhood and creating opportunities for new homeowners who are now invested in the future of their neighborhood. This builds wealth, pride and continued investment in our communities.” An affiliate organization of the URA, PHDC was created in 1994 to develop housing in neighborhoods that were underserved by private development markets. PHDC operates in low-to-moderate income areas to serve low-to-moderate income homebuyers to help build wealth and investment in neighborhoods. The PHDC has developed or assisted in developing nearly 300 units of affordable housing and has invested $68 million in housing in City of Pittsburgh neighborhoods.  “Homeownership is the primary way families can pass on generational wealth, yet there are many challenges to providing affordable housing, such as construction costs and affordability gaps,” PHDC Deputy Executive Director Richard Snipe said. “Through strong and committed partnerships with Lowes and Home Depot, and creativity in acquiring housing stock that can be rehabilitated, PHDC has been able to address these challenges. Nothing is more satisfying than seeing the pride in the face of a client who is now a homeowner – a dream they never thought possible.”   Today’s walking tour showcased only a sampling of the PHDC homes in the Hill District. Financial support for these projects was provided by Dollar Bank, First Commonwealth Bank, Neighborhood Allies and the Heinz Endowments, with the support of Mayor Peduto, Councilman R. Daniel Lavelle, State Senator Wayne Fontana, State Representative Jake Wheatley Jr. and Allegheny County Executive Rich Fitzgerald. Developments are also made possible through strong and committed partnerships with Lowes, Home Depot and IKEA.  Currently, PHDC has seven units under construction (two pre-sold) and 24 units in predevelopment citywide. To learn more, visit phdchomes.org. | 13/7/2021 12:10:53 |
| City Seeking Historic Restoration Specialty Contractors for Neill Log House in Schenley Park | PITTSBURGH, PA (July 14, 2021) The City of Pittsburgh Office of Management and Budget Procurement Division has announced a specialized request for qualifications (RFQ) has been released for the stabilization and restoration of the Neill Log House in Schenley Park, the oldest domestic structure in the City of Pittsburgh.   The Neill Log House is a designated Pittsburgh Historic Landmark. Though sources vary as to the exact date of its construction, the most common belief is that Robert Neill constructed the cabin shortly after 1787. It changed ownership throughout the nineteenth century before it was donated to the City of Pittsburgh along with 300 acres of land by Mary Croghan Schenley. Schenley Park is listed on the National Register of Historic Places.The preservation and stabilization of the historic structure will require firms that specialize in the restoration of log houses per U.S. Secretary of the Interior standards, so the City of Pittsburgh is seeking RFQs to gauge interest and establish a pool of contractors with the necessary expertise to complete projects on the house. No work will be awarded as a result of this RFQ, but vendors who respond would have the opportunity to bid for work if or when the City solicits specific preservation projects for Neill Log House.   Management of the restoration will be led by the Department of Public Works with the support of community and local historic preservation partners. More information about the RFQ is available here. Interested firms must submit a statement of qualification to daniel.tobin@pittsburghpa.gov by August 21, 2021.Neill Log House, early 1900sNeill Log House, recent | 14/7/2021 12:12:47 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Wednesday, July 14, 2021 | No public events scheduled | 14/7/2021 09:06:29 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Thursday, July 15, 2021 | Interview with Oliver MorrisonTime: 11:00 a.m. | 15/7/2021 08:48:22 |
| City Accelerator Initiative Receives 2021 HUD Secretary's Award for Public-Private Partnerships | PITTSBURGH, PA (July 15, 2021) The U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development and the Council on Foundations have recognized the Citi Foundation and Living Cities for the 2021 Secretary’s Award for Public-Philanthropic Partnerships for launching the “City Accelerator” initiative. The City of Pittsburgh is one of the U.S. cities participating in the City Accelerator.  The City Accelerator initiative competitively selects cities to receive flexible financial resources and technical expertise to test specific administrative, financial, political or cultural innovation efforts that produce stronger outcomes for residents and help cities run more efficiently, effectively, and equitably. The City of Pittsburgh is one of 10 U.S. cities participating in the inclusive procurement cohort and one of 27 U.S. cities that have been selected to participate in the City Accelerator since it started in 2014. Through its participation in the City Accelerator for inclusive procurement, the City has changed its procurement systems to better meet the needs of local businesses owned by women and people of color when they do business with the City. The City has:  - Implemented a 12-month procurement forecasting system called the Buying Plan so small businesses can view upcoming contracting opportunities from all city departments and authorities in one centralized place and have more time to prepare or plan their proposals.   - Shortened the time between when a contract is awarded and executed, which further helps small businesses plan for income from contracts and the labor and other costs they would need to complete their work.  - Launched “Contract Connections: Bids for PGH,” a remote training series to help local, diverse small businesses learn how to participate in the City and other agencies’ procurement processes.   “I’d like to congratulate the Citi Foundation and Living Cities for this well-deserved recognition for helping cities create systems and processes that promote equity and efficiency across the nation,” said Mayor William Peduto. “Pittsburgh has benefitted from the opportunity to change our procurement systems to meet the needs of our minority- and women-owned businesses. When minority- and women-owned businesses can get city contracts, our money is invested equitably into our communities and strengthens our local economy.” If the racial wealth gap were eliminated, it is estimated that tax revenues could increase by up to $325 billion for state and local governments, and the national GDP could rise by 22 percent. Government contracts have long served as a springboard for business growth for white owned businesses – including some leading U.S. businesses – and over the past fifty years, government procurement has evolved as a critical tool in addressing our nation’s history of economic exclusion by promoting diverse business formation and growth across the United States.  “This award is a testament to our collective responsiveness to the needs of cities. As the City Accelerator expanded to 20 more cities in 2016, we learned that cities could not achieve improved economic opportunity for all without applying a racial equity lens to our work, ” said Living Cities CEO and President Ben Hecht.  The Secretary’s Award for Public-Philanthropic Partnerships recognizes excellence in partnerships that have both transformed the relationships between the government and philanthropy sectors and led to measurable benefits in housing and community development, including increased economic development, health, safety, and education for low-income families across the country. This award is a testament to the cross-sector relationships developed through the City Accelerator between 27 unique U.S. cities, Living Cities, and Citi Foundation. | 15/7/2021 10:14:23 |
| Fifth Avenue Downtown Closures Announced | PITTSBURGH, PA (July 15, 2021) The City of Pittsburgh’s Department of Mobility and Infrastructure (DOMI) has announced a full closure to all vehicular and pedestrian traffic on Fifth Avenue between Ross and 6th Avenue starting the week of Monday, July 12 through an anticipated completion at the end of August. Fifth Avenue between Grant and Ross will also be closed to all vehicular and pedestrian traffic starting Monday, July 19 through an anticipated completion at the end of August. Detours will be posted.Duquesne Light will be performing manhole work associated with the Bus Rapid Transit Project (BRT). Further information regarding the BRT can be found at https://portauthority.org/brt/Thank you for your cooperation during this time. If you have questions or require further information regarding this closure you may contact the City’s Response Center by calling 311 or 412-255-2621. | 15/7/2021 15:13:59 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Friday, July 16, 2021 | No public events scheduled. | 16/7/2021 09:03:18 |
| Four Senior Centers to Re-Open with Modified Hours Next Week | PITTSBURGH, PA (July 16, 2021) The City of Pittsburgh Department of Parks and Recreation (Citiparks) announced today it will begin re-opening Healthy Active Living (Senior) Centers in a phased approach starting this Monday.  Three of four Focal Point Centers – Homewood, Sheraden and South Side Market House – will open with a modified schedule starting this Monday, July 19. These centers will be open Monday-Friday 9 a.m. to 1 p.m. and programming will be offered during these times. Program schedules will be available at the centers. Greenfield, the fourth Focal Point Center, will open on Tuesday, July 20 following the completion of kitchen renovations and will follow the same days and hours.  Senior frozen grab-and-go meal distribution will continue at the four Focal Point Centers as well as all current distribution centers on Monday, Wednesday and Friday from 11 a.m. to 1 p.m. Dine-in meals will not yet be served at open centers, but tea and coffee will be available.  The following Healthy Active Living (Senior) centers will be opening under the same modified Monday-Friday 9 a.m. to 1 p.m. schedule starting August 2: - Glen Hazel - Hazelwood - Lawrenceville - Brighton Heights - Beechview  - Mt. Washington - West End  The opening dates for Healthy Active Living centers in Morningside and Northview Heights are still to be determined.  Citiparks has developed a COVID-19 safety operations plans for the centers with the Allegheny County Department of Human Services and Area Agency on Aging to ensure the safety of vulnerable older adults. Seniors who have not been vaccinated are recommended to wear masks. Seniors who have registered at the centers in the past will be receiving notification of the new schedule and COVID-19 safety information in the mail and additional information will be available on Citiparks’ website. | 16/7/2021 10:10:16 |
| Pittsburgh Financial Empowerment Centers Help Over 1,000 People Save Money and Reduce Debt | PITTSBURGH, PA (July 16, 2021) Mayor William Peduto’s Office of Equity announced today that the Pittsburgh Financial Empowerment Center (FEC) has provided direct personal financial management support to over 1,000 people since the City of Pittsburgh and Neighborhood Allies launched the program in partnership with Advantage Credit Counseling Services, Inc. in March 2019. The Pittsburgh FEC provides any Pittsburgher over the age of 18 with free one-on-one professional financial counseling to help them tackle financial challenges, reduce debt, increase savings, navigate complex systems and make concrete plans to achieve long term goals. Over 1,000 people have met with the FEC’s accredited financial counselors – remotely during the pandemic – who help them define and reach their own, personalized financial goals.  "As part of our ongoing focus on creating equity and opportunity for all Pittsburghers, especially those that have and continue to face real barriers to participating in our financial system and economy, we are proud to see that over 1,000 Pittsburghers have taken advantage of our FEC and our professional counselors there to tackle debt, increase savings, plan for the future and get access to safe, non-predatory banking products," said Office of Equity Financial Opportunity Manager Henry Horn Pyatt.  "I wasn't sure exactly what I was looking for help with, but I knew I needed help as soon as possible,” said one current FEC participant. “I have so many goals - I want to own a home, maybe start a business - and I need better credit and savings to help me get there. I'm pumped to be working with my financial counselor! I needed this kind of support and I'm feeling motivated for the future." FECs have contributed to:  - Total Debt Reduction (all clients): -$1,644,827   - Total Savings Increase (all clients): $1,310,693   - Average Debt Reduction per client: 304 clients reduced debt by an average of $5,411   - Average savings increase per client: 299 clients increased saving by an average of almost $4,384  Of the 1,000+ clients served:  - 48% are Black/African-American, 36% White, 8% Other or Multiple races, 5% not reported, 3% prefer not to answer - 81% of client households are below AMI   - 58% of client households have an income of less than $35k/year "We were able to reach this incredible milestone because of the leadership of Advantage Credit Counseling, the expertise of the professional counselors, and the efforts of our partners, who have spread the word about how financial counseling can improve economic security in tangible ways," said Sarah Dieleman Perry, Director of Economic Opportunity at Neighborhood Allies.   “Advantage celebrates the Financial Empowerment Center’s 1000th client and all the other FEC clients who have taken the first steps towards achieving their financial goals,” said  Mary Loftus, Co-President/Co-CEO of Advantage Credit Counseling Service, Inc. “The agency is proud of the work of the FEC staff in helping these members of our community on their road to financial stability.” Pittsburgh FEC is a free public service provided in partnership between the City of Pittsburgh Mayor’s Office of Equity, Neighborhood Allies, Advantage Credit Counseling Service and Cities for Financial Empowerment Fund.  To register for counseling, visit the website or follow Pittsburgh FEC on Facebook.  For more information, contact henry.horn-pyatt@pittsburghpa.gov or call 412-255-2626. | 16/7/2021 11:27:11 |
| Webster Avenue Lane Closure Beginning Monday | PITTSBURGH, PA (July 16 2021) The City of Pittsburgh Department of Mobility and Infrastructure advises that Webster Avenue eastbound between Chatham Street and Washington Place will experience a single lane closure daily, as needed, from 7AM-5PM starting Monday, July 19, 2021 through Friday, August 20, 2021.The restriction is necessary to allow the contractor to pave the newly constructed concrete roadway along Webster Ave. associated with the CAP Project. The right lane of Webster Avenue Eastbound will be closed to traffic.  When travelling through the work area, use caution and expect delays.The work is being performed by JB Fay Co. If you have any questions concerning this closure, please contact their Project Manager, Chuck Grabner, at 412-779-8354. | 16/7/2021 11:29:22 |
| Milling and Paving to Resume Monday | PITTSBURGH, PA (July 16, 2021) The City of Pittsburgh Department of Mobility and Infrastructure (DOMI) is continuing its 2021 milling and paving program next week.  Streets being milled include:  Spring Garden Ave, Lindell St (Reischner), Mountain Ave, Estella Ave, Bernd St, Arcadia Way, Altamont Way, Emerald St, Eugenie, Excelsior St, Sterling St and Swearingen Way.Streets being paved include:  Cherryland St, Cerise St, Cerise Pl, Morrisey St, Milroy St, Zolium St, Dalton Ave, Stokes Way, Spring Garden Ave, Lindell St (Reischner), Mauch St and Schubert Ave. The full paving schedule for the week, including further details on streets and intersections, is available here.  This year the City is investing nearly $16 million in the street resurfacing program, which supports asphalt street resurfacing, ADA curb ramp upgrades on paved streets, and repair of concrete, brick and block stone streets throughout Pittsburgh.Approximately 34 miles of streets will be resurfaced this year. Additional mileage will be resurfaced through cooperation agreements with local public utilities. Mechanical patching will improve many miles more by addressing particular trouble spots on otherwise acceptable street corridors.     While many residents are continuing to work from home, the City will be continuing extra efforts to notify residents to move their vehicles to enable street resurfacing to proceed. Streets scheduled for resurfacing will be posted weekly on DOMI’s website and will be publicized through city social media channels. | 16/7/2021 14:06:38 |
| Mayor William Peduto’s Public Schedule - Monday, July 19, 2021 | No public events scheduled. | 19/7/2021 09:00:57 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Tuesday, July 20, 2021 | Allegheny Commons North Promenade Ribbon CuttingTime: 6:00 p.m. | 20/7/2021 08:59:45 |
| City Installs Safe Connector Path for Pedestrians and Bicyclists in Lawrenceville | PITTSBURGH, PA (July 20, 2021) The City of Pittsburgh Department of Mobility and Infrastructure announced today the installation of the Hatfield Connector, the final portion of the Central Lawrenceville Neighborway. The connector is a shared-use pedestrian and bike path that closes the pedestrian and bicycle path gap between 50th and 51st Streets.  Neighborways are low-traffic streets that prioritize pedestrians, bicycles and other non-vehicular traffic to offer a safer, more comfortable alternative to busy arterial streets. Sometimes, Neighborways create connections for bicyclists and pedestrians by creating ramps or trails on the public right of way.  The Hatfield Connector was constructed by the Department of Public Works’ Construction Division through an old City right of way and extends from 50th to 51st, closing a crucial gap in the bike network between the Central Lawrenceville Neighborway (on Foster, 44th and Hatfield) and Upper Lawrenceville and Stanton Heights. “It is always exciting to see an idea from a community meeting or community plan advance to a real life project,” said Lauren Byrne Connelly, Executive Director for Lawrenceville Corporation. “The Neighborway, and its improved infrastructure along Willow, Hatfield, and now through the connector, provides a critical connection for pedestrians, bicyclists, and others looking for safe and accessible routes to and through the Lawrenceville community. A healthy community is one where leaders can plan and implement both short- and long-term infrastructure &amp; policy improvements that enhance the safety and livability of our neighborhood, and we are appreciative to the City for working with us to create a safe and accessible Lawrenceville.” The construction included grading and paving the 10-foot path, constructing modular block walls, installing new sidewalk ramps and includes a long tree pit on 51st Street and sodding of the adjacent land. The City will be installing bollards, railings, signage and planting additional trees. BEFORE:AFTER: | 20/7/2021 11:04:52 |
| Mayor Peduto Signs Executive Order Calling for City Youth Bullying Prevention Policy | PITTSBURGH, PA (July 21, 2021) Mayor William Peduto signed an Executive Order today for the development and implementation of a Youth Bullying Prevention Policy to cover all youth-focused programming provided by the City of Pittsburgh.  "The City offers our youngest residents opportunities to play sports, engage in career exploration, build skills and express their creativity,” said Mayor Peduto. “Today, we reaffirm our commitment as a city to providing kids with safe and healthy spaces to be themselves no matter who they are, how they identify, how they choose to express themselves or where they come from. Bullying has a dangerous impact on the mental and physical health of our youngest residents. These harmful actions have no place in Pittsburgh, and my Executive Order represents a major step toward preventing and responding to bullying incidents in city facilities."  The Executive Order directs city departments that work with young people to develop a unified anti-bullying policy to create safe space for young people in city facilities, particularly those of protected classes who may be more vulnerable to bullying. Being bullied can lead to increased feelings of depression, anxiety, loneliness, loss of interest and absence from school or programs. Data shows that children with disabilities, immigrant children, children of color and LGBTQIA+ youth are much more likely to be bullied and verbally harassed. The order also calls for the ongoing training of staff to recognize and mitigate bullying as well as help cultivate better understanding of youth experiencing bullying such as Sexual Orientation, Gender Identity and Gender Expression (SOGIE) training.  Mayor Peduto has called for the Departments of Parks and Recreation, Human Resourves and Civil Service and Public Safety to develop and publicize the Youth Bullying Prevention Policy and share with external partners to develop similar policies.  A full copy of the Executive Order is available here. | 21/7/2021 09:15:35 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Wednesday, July 21, 2021 | Youth Bullying Prevention Executive Order Signing CeremonyTime: 10 a.m.Location: Ormsby Community Recreation CenterEmployee of the Month CeremonyTime: 3 p.m.Location: Mayor's Office | 21/7/2021 08:34:44 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Thursday, July 22, 2021 | Bureau of Fire Promotions CeremonyTime: 2:30 p.m. | 22/7/2021 09:01:29 |
| Milling and Paving Resume Monday | PITTSBURGH, PA (July 23, 2021) The City of Pittsburgh Department of Mobility and Infrastructure (DOMI) is continuing its 2021 milling and paving program next week.  Streets being milled include:  Angelo St, Excelsior St, Emerald St, Arcadia Way, Altamont Way, Bernd St, Sylvania Way, Eugenie, Grimes Ave, Knox Ave, Charles St, Bausman St, Mathews Ave, Suncrest St and Reifert St. Streets being paved include:  Mountain Ave, Sterling St, Estella Ave, Angelo St, Excelsior St, Emerald St, Dalton Ave, Stokes Way, Arcadia Way, Altamont Way, Bernd St, Sylvania Way, Spring Garden Ave, Schubert St, Eugenie, Grimes Ave, Knox Ave, Lopella St, Mauch St, Lindell St (Reischner), Charles St, Bausman St, Mathews Ave, Suncrest St and Reifert St. The full paving schedule for the week, including further details on streets and intersections, is available here.  This year the City is investing nearly $16 million in the street resurfacing program, which supports asphalt street resurfacing, ADA curb ramp upgrades on paved streets, and repair of concrete, brick and block stone streets throughout Pittsburgh.Approximately 34 miles of streets will be resurfaced this year. Additional mileage will be resurfaced through cooperation agreements with local public utilities. Mechanical patching will improve many miles more by addressing particular trouble spots on otherwise acceptable street corridors.     While many residents are continuing to work from home, the City will be continuing extra efforts to notify residents to move their vehicles to enable street resurfacing to proceed. Streets scheduled for resurfacing will be posted weekly on DOMI’s website and will be publicized through city social media channels. | 23/7/2021 13:51:22 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Friday, July 23, 2021 | No public events scheduled. | 23/7/2021 09:04:18 |
| PWSA Receives Nearly $24 Million State Wastewater Infrastructure Low-Interest Loan for Sewer Line Repairs | PITTSBURGH, PA (July 26, 2021) The City of Pittsburgh has announced that the Pittsburgh Water and Sewer Authority (PWSA) has been awarded a $23,970,000 low-interest loan from the Pennsylvania Investment Authority (PENNVEST) for wastewater infrastructure repairs. This funding will jump-start critical work that is needed to strengthen the sewer system and provide PWSA ratepayers with safer, more reliable wastewater services. PWSA will use the funding to repair approximately 22 miles of sewer collection lines in Homewood, Squirrel Hill, Marshall-Shadeland, Spring Garden, Highland Park and Carrick. The project will aid in the elimination of sewage overflows and reduce infiltration into the collection lines. “I’d like to thank Governor Wolf for this investment in Pittsburgh’s infrastructure,” said Mayor William Peduto. “We have inherited an infrastructure system that is aging and not equipped to handle the stresses our region has been experiencing. This funding will allow PWSA to continue their work of creating a safe, clean water system that works for our communities.” “We are thankful for the support of the PENNVEST Board, Governor Wolf, Mayor Peduto, and our city and state legislative leaders for recognizing the essential work that is needed to strengthen our sewer system,” said Will Pickering, PWSA’s Chief Executive Officer. “The intense and frequent storms we’ve experienced this summer have elevated the need to rehabilitate aging sewer lines throughout Pittsburgh. This infusion of state funding will save ratepayers approximately $16 million in comparison to traditional municipal financing."This project was one of four projects selected statewide for wastewater infrastructure improvements and is funded through the Clean Water State Revolving Funds and PENNVEST. A full list of wastewater and other clean, lead-free water infrastructure projects receiving funds is available here. | 26/7/2021 12:46:33 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Monday, July 26, 2021 | No public events scheduled. | 26/7/2021 09:05:55 |
| City of Pittsburgh and City of Dortmund, Germany Selected for International Urban and Regional Cooperation Sustainable Agriculture Program | PITTSBURGH, PA (July 27, 2021) The City of Pittsburgh and Dortmund, Germany have been selected as partner participants in the International Urban and Regional Cooperation (IURC) Program. The cities will work together to share information and develop localized policy as part of the Sustainable Agriculture: Food Systems, Urban Gardens cluster.  The program provides the opportunity for cities to collaborate and share information on municipal policies, programs and initiatives related to sustainable food systems for up to two years. During that time, Pittsburgh and Dortmund will work closely together while also having access to other cities and organizations committed to developing urban agriculture solutions. “Almost all issues involving equity and sustainability are happening globally, but are most effectively handled through policy and programs made on the local, grassroots municipal level,” said Mayor William Peduto. “Partnering once again with Dortmund will allow us to share and identify sustainable, long-term solutions to urban challenges. We have a lot to share and a lot to learn for addressing the resilience of local food systems.”  Pittsburgh and Dortmund are cities that share an industrial past and have previously worked together on climate, sustainability and resilience exchanges. The City’s work in urban agriculture and food systems includes the Pittsburgh Food Policy Council and adopting the United Nation’s Sustainable Development Goals on Zero Hunger. Dortmund, like many European cities, is working to grow and produce closer to their population center.  The partnership was made possible through the Sister Cities Association of Pittsburgh (SCAP), who develops, maintains and expands current and future Sister City relationships to bring cities together to address and solve global challenges facing cities of tomorrow to benefit our region’s economic, educational and cultural sectors. Though Pittsburgh and Dortmund are not sister cities, SCAP has worked to connect the two cities for other policy exchange initiatives. Pittsburgh is currently working with six of its Sister Cities to develop localized policy solutions to goals in the EU Green Deal, New Urban Agenda, Agenda 2030 and the European Cohesion Policy. A full list of Pittsburgh’s sister cities is available here. | 27/7/2021 09:04:41 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Tuesday, July 27, 2021 | No public events scheduled. | 27/7/2021 08:46:03 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Wednesday, July 28, 2021 | Grand Opening of CVS Workforce Innovation and Talent Innovation CenterTime: 12:30 p.m.Location: Ebenezer Baptist Church, Hill District | 28/7/2021 08:47:23 |
| Fall 2021 Civic Leadership Academy Applications Open and Available in Spanish | PITTSBURGH, PA (July 29, 2021) Applications are now open for the Mayor William Peduto’s Fall 2021 Civic Leadership Academy (CLA). CLA is a free 11-week course where participants learn about city operations, services and resources from leaders of city departments, offices, bureaus and authorities.  The course encourages more informed, effective and inspired community and civic leadership by giving City residents an opportunity to understand and engage with their local government. The program is held twice per year and applications are open to individuals over age 18 who live in, or own and operate a business in, the City of Pittsburgh limits. The Fall 2021 session will be held virtually via Zoom every Wednesday, September 22nd – December 8th, 2021, from 6:00-8:30 PM. Applications are due August 27th, 2021 at midnight.  This cohort will be mostly virtual, but some sessions will be offered in-person for a hands-on experience. COVID-19 CDC guidelines will be followed at all times. Learn more about the Civic Leadership Academy at pittsburghpa.gov/oca/cla and apply at applycla.pittsburghpa.gov. Residents are encouraged to view recordings of the most recent sessions of virtual Civic Leadership Academy on YouTube.  To receive notification of future opportunities with the Civic Leadership Academy and other programs and news from the Office of Community Affairs and the City of Pittsburgh, sign up for the monthly community newsletter here. Spanish language access is now available for the Civic Leadership Academy. Go here for the application or to learn more both in Spanish and English. La Academia de Liderazgo Cívico ofrece servicios de interpretación ahora en español. Para acceder a la inscripción en español o para aprender mas, haga clic en el siguiente link: http://applycla.pittsburghpa.gov/Anyone who requires an accommodation for effective communication or a modification of policies or procedures to participate in this program should contact the City of Pittsburgh ADA Coordinator Hillary Roman at hillary.roman@pittsburghpa.gov or by calling 412-255-2102 int. 457. Please contact Gisele at 412-255-4773 or gisele.betances@pittsburghpa.gov with questions.   | 29/7/2021 13:26:26 |
| Mayor William Peduto’s Public Schedule - Thursday, July 29, 2021 | No public events scheduled. | 29/7/2021 09:00:22 |
|  | No public events scheduled | 29/7/2021 09:01:32 |
| City Awards 14 Love Your Block Community Grants | PITTSBURGH, PA (July 29, 2021) The City of Pittsburgh Office of Community Affairs is pleased to announce the 2021 cohort of Love Your Block grantees. Love Your Block is a City of Pittsburgh mini-grant program that brings neighbors together to improve our communities by combating blight, creating assets, and building resilience – block by block.  14 community organization from across the City of Pittsburgh will participate in this year’s program by maintaining community gardens, cleaning up vacant lots, planting trees in their neighborhoods and more. They include:  - Beechview Area Concerned Citizens for Beechview Monument Parklet Celebration - Brookline Together for New Brookline Community Entrance Sign  - East Commons Community Garden at Allegheny Commons Park for East Commons Community Garden - Crafton Heights Westwood Community for Crafton Heights Westwood Neighborhood Beautification Project - Lawrenceville United for McCandless Community Organic Garden - Mount Washington Community Development Corporation for Mount Washington Tree Pit Beautification Project  - Oakcliffe Community Organization of South Oakland for Oakcliffe’s Little Free Library Box  - Out of the End Incorporated for West End Community Farm - Our Clubhouse for Strip District Art Mural  - Pretty Up Beechview for Jardin de Unidad Beautification Project  - Reform Presbyterian Woman’s Home for Bus Shelter Beautification Project   - Revelations &amp; Reflections for Kennedy Avenue Beautification Project  - South Side Community Council for South Side Park and Bandi Schaum Community Garden Cleanup - Squirrel Hill Urban Coalition for Squirrel Hill Gateway Beautification Project "We are glad that we can once award funding to our community leaders to safely bring neighbors together to lead and implement community improvement projects,” said Mayor William Peduto. “I’d also like to thank the Office of Community Affairs and the city departments who work with our neighborhoods to help make these projects happen.”  Additionally, 26 community organizations participated in the Love Your Block 2020 program and are implementing their projects through Fall 2021.  Residents are welcome to stay updated and learn more about Love Your Block by subscribing to the Office of Community Newsletter here. | 29/7/2021 13:18:19 |
| City of Pittsburgh Offering Swimming Vouchers for Dormont Pool | PITTSBURGH, PA (July 29, 2021) The City of Pittsburgh Department of Parks and Recreation (Citiparks) has announced a new program for City residents to use voucher coupons to swim at the Dormont Pool for the remainder of the summer 2021 season.  City residents will be able to present coupon vouchers at the Dormont Pool for free entry for children and $2.oo off for adults, matching the daily City pool rate of $5 per day for adults. Coupons will be available starting July 30 from the eight open City of Pittsburgh pool locations during business hours or from Brookline Recreation Center or Phillips Recreation Center between 9 a.m and 6 p.m. Monday through Friday. City season pool tags are not transferrable at the Dormont Pool.  The program was initiated under the leadership of Pittsburgh City Council in partnership with the Borough of Dormont.  The Dormont Pool is open Tuesday to Sunday from 1 p.m. to 7 p.m. until August 22. After that, it will be open on weekends through Labor Day. City pool schedules are available on the Citiparks website. Borough of Dormont Media Contact:Bethany BachmanCommunity Events and Communications Coordinatorbbachman@boro.dormont.pa.us | 29/7/2021 10:56:04 |
| City of Pittsburgh Releases Finalized Neighborhood Plan Guide | PITTSBURGH, PA (July 29, 2021) — In collaboration with public agencies and community planning partners, the City of Pittsburgh’s Department of City Planning has released a finalized Neighborhood Plan Guide. The guide establishes a process for bringing together community stakeholders to create high-quality and consistent neighborhood plans and outlines a set of standards that plans must meet to be adopted by the City’s Planning Commission and become city policy. The Neighborhood Plan Guide lays out how public agencies, Registered Community Organizations (RCOs), and the public work together to create strategic plans for neighborhoods throughout the city, including the framework and phases needed to make sure neighborhood plans can be formally adopted by the Planning Commission. Plans that are formally adopted by the Planning Commission become official City of Pittsburgh policy and guide public investments in the neighborhood, including capital budget decisions, over the next 10 or more years until updated.  The Neighborhood Plan Guide was created based on experiences with the Uptown, Hazelwood, Manchester-Chateau, and Homewood neighborhood plans as well as comments from partner agencies, community stakeholders, and the general public. In the drafting process, over 500 comments were received and addressed in the guide’s three drafts. Some of the changes implemented as a result of public comment include: - Focusing on equity and inclusion in the planning process - Including the EcoDistricts Protocol and the P4 framework - Clarifying roles for Steering Committees, Action Teams, and Technical Advisory Groups - Adding steps to the process that address existing plans and studies- Explaining mandatory versus optional neighborhood plan topics The Neighborhood Plan Guide was presented to the Planning Commission in March 2020. After the presentation and public testimony, the Neighborhood Plan Guide was approved. After this approval, the City partnered with local design agency Fireman Creative to create interactive online and print materials to improve the experience of those using the guide.  “The Neighborhood Plan Guide is the culmination of years of work to empower communities to take a proactive role in their community’s future,” said City Planning Director Andrew Dash. “Over the last decade, we’ve learned that this empowerment can only happen through collaboration and dialogue and we now have a tool that will guide us through the planning process.” Neighborhood Plans are created in five phases: organize, visualize, strategize, formalize, and realize. The guide includes an overview and guidance for each phase as well as resources to support planning teams throughout the process.  The interactive online guide can be found here.Contact: Audrey Wells Communications Specialist Department of City Planning Audrey.Wells@pittsburghpa.gov | 29/7/2021 11:48:10 |
| Partial Closures of Three Rivers Heritage Trail on North Side on Friday, July 30 | PITTSBURGH, PA (July 29, 2021) The City of Pittsburgh Department of Public Works Forestry Division has announced that Duquesne Light Company will be performing tree pruning and cable line work along the Three Rivers Heritage Trail along River Avenue in the North Side on Friday, July 30. Trail users should use caution and follow all posted signs during this work.  Work is anticipated to be done between 7 a.m and 3 p.m. The trail will remain open with partial trail closures in the active work zone. Bicyclists are encouraged to walk bicycles through the work area for additional safety. | 29/7/2021 17:30:37 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Friday, July 30, 2021 | No public events scheduled. | 30/7/2021 09:00:35 |
| Full Closure of Rialto Street Starting Monday, August 2 | PITTSBURGH, PA (July 30, 2021) The City of Pittsburgh’s Department of Mobility and Infrastructure (DOMI) will be closing Rialto Street from Lowrie Street to Route 28 starting Monday August 2, 2021 through Friday August 20, 2021. Closures will be from 7:00 a.m. to 5:30 p.m. Southbound lanes will be open after work hours. Signage will be posted with detour information.Detours routes are:Route 28 to Chestnut Street to Phineas Street to Troy Hill Rd to Lowrie Street to Rialto Street (both directions)Access will be permitted for Emergency Vehicles and local traffic as needed.The purpose of this closure is for work to be performed by Baiano Construction on the Rialto Streets steps.Thank you for your cooperation during this time and we hope there will be only minor inconveniences. If you have questions or require further information regarding this closure you may contact the City’s Response Center by calling 311 or 412-255-2621. | 30/7/2021 12:12:19 |
| Milling and Paving to Resume Monday | PITTSBURGH, PA (July 30, 2021) The City of Pittsburgh Department of Mobility and Infrastructure (DOMI) is continuing its 2021 milling and paving program next week.  Streets being milled include:  Orchard Pl, Bruner St (Laughlin Ext), Cushman St, Windom St, Bradish St, Carey Way, Sarah St, Sydney St, South Side Trail, Tarpon Way, Virgin Way, Eleanor St, Mary St, Mary Jane St, Handler St and Gregory St.Streets being paved include:  Knox Ave, Charles St, Bausman St, Mathews Ave, Grimes Ave, Bernd St, Sylvania Way, Eugenie Way, Orchard Pl, Suncrest St, Reifert St, Bruner St (Laughlin Ext), Cushman St, Bradish St, Sarah St, Windom St, Sydney St, South Side Trail, Sarah St, Gregory St, Eleanor St, Mary St, Mary Jane St and Handler St. The full paving schedule for the week, including further details on streets and intersections, is available here.  This year the City is investing nearly $16 million in the street resurfacing program, which supports asphalt street resurfacing, ADA curb ramp upgrades on paved streets, and repair of concrete, brick and block stone streets throughout Pittsburgh.Approximately 34 miles of streets will be resurfaced this year. Additional mileage will be resurfaced through cooperation agreements with local public utilities. Mechanical patching will improve many miles more by addressing particular trouble spots on otherwise acceptable street corridors.     While many residents are continuing to work from home, the City will be continuing extra efforts to notify residents to move their vehicles to enable street resurfacing to proceed. Streets scheduled for resurfacing will be posted weekly on DOMI’s website and will be publicized through city social media channels. | 30/7/2021 10:58:14 |
| City of Pittsburgh Dolly Parton Imagination Library Sends 75,000th Free Book to Pittsburgh Children | PITTSBURGH, PA (July 30, 2021) The Office of Equity has announced that the City of Pittsburgh’s Dolly Parton Imagination Library has distributed 75,000 free books to local children. The City of Pittsburgh’s Dolly Parton Imagination Library is a free program for any child that lives in the City of Pittsburgh age 0-5 to receive one book per month in the mail until their fifth birthday. When they turn five, they will have their own library of up to 60 books.  Any child under age five that lives in the City of Pittsburgh is eligible to register. Visit the program website for more information or to enroll your child today.  The City of Pittsburgh’s program launched in February 2019 and is affiliated with the national initiative started by music legend Dolly Parton. It is funded locally through the generous support of the Benter Foundation, Hillman Family Foundation and McAuley Ministries. | 30/7/2021 13:12:28 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Monday, August 2, 2021 | No public events scheduled. | 2/8/2021 08:53:48 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Tuesday, August 3, 2021 | EMS Swearing-In CeremonyTime: 11 a.m.Location: Mayor's OfficeNational Night Out Community EventsTime: 6 p.m. | 3/8/2021 09:05:14 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Wednesday, August 4, 2021 | Celebrate Learn &amp; Earn Youth Virtual EventTime: 12:00 p.m.Location: Learn &amp; Earn Pittsburgh's Facebook Page | 4/8/2021 09:08:35 |
| South Side Trail to be Closed for Milling and Paving Thursday and Friday | PITTSBURGH, PA (August 4, 2021) The City of Pittsburgh Department of Mobility and Infrastructure (DOMI) has announced that the South Side Trail between 18th and 4th Streets will be closed starting tomorrow to be milled and paved. The full closure of the trail will begin on Thursday, August 5 at 7:00 a.m. and last until Friday, August 6 at 4:00 p.m.  Additional information about DOMI’s paving program can be found here. | 4/8/2021 11:34:20 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Thursday, August 5, 2021 | No public events scheduled. | 5/8/2021 08:49:11 |
| Department of Energy Awards $3.8 Million Grant to Develop Zero Emissions Curbside Management Model to Benefit Businesses and Environment in Pittsburgh | PITTSBURGH, PA (August 5, 2021) The Department of Mobility and Infrastructure (DOMI) has announced that the U.S. Department of Energy has awarded a 3-year $3.8 million grant to advance zero emissions delivery, study curb use in business districts and implement technologies and policies that accelerate electric vehicle (EV) adoption by commercial fleets. Pittsburgh, Los Angeles and Santa Monica were the only three cities awarded the inaugural grant to conduct research and create models that other cities can use. The proposal, led by the Los Angeles Cleantech Incubator in partnership with the Pittsburgh Parking Authority, Automotus, Carnegie Mellon University, DOMI and others, will expand Pittsburgh’s curbside parking pilot. It will deploy around 150 additional “smart loading zone” cameras in areas with high concentrations of vehicle traffic, restaurants and small businesses, starting with Downtown, Lawrenceville and Oakland. The cameras will gather data on the types of activities happening curbside like parcel delivery, food delivery, ride-hailing, patron parking, bus riding or other activities and measure which of these vehicles are electric or combustion engines.  Newly collected data will be analyzed to see what vehicles are using the curbside for what purpose to determine policies that can enhance the safety and efficiency of parking, traffic flow and incentivize the use of electric vehicles. In the first phase of this project, DOMI will be working with local business organizations, restaurants, small businesses and other community stakeholders to pilot dedicated smart loading zone areas for curbside takeout and delivery services. These zones will enable streamline pick-ups and drop-offs and reduce double-parking and fuel emissions from idling vehicles.  This is the first federal grant of its kind to accelerate emission reductions by leveraging curbside management policies and technologies and will serve as a blueprint to cities nationwide. With the increase of curbside services for businesses, cities are looking towards new technologies for ways to reduce traffic congestion, reduce emissions to improve air quality, increase equitable access to business districts and adapt curbside management practices to emerging services. | 5/8/2021 15:36:11 |
| Milling and Paving to Resume Monday | PITTSBURGH, PA (August 6, 2021) The City of Pittsburgh Department of Mobility and Infrastructure (DOMI) is continuing its 2021 milling and paving program next week.  Streets being milled include:  Amberson Ave, Kentucky Ave, Lingrove Pl, Akron Way, Louisa St, Filmore St, Parkman Ave, Lingrove Pl, Breining St, Virgin Way, Tarpon Way, Waldeck St, Sylvan Ave and Farmington St.Streets being paved include:  Mathews Ave, Suncrest St, Reifert St, Bruner St, Cushman St, Windom St, Bradish St, Carey Way, Mary St, Mary Jane St, Handler St, Louisa St, Filmore St and Parkman Ave.  The full paving schedule for the week, including further details on streets and intersections, is available here.  This year the City is investing nearly $16 million in the street resurfacing program, which supports asphalt street resurfacing, ADA curb ramp upgrades on paved streets, and repair of concrete, brick and block stone streets throughout Pittsburgh.Approximately 34 miles of streets will be resurfaced this year. Additional mileage will be resurfaced through cooperation agreements with local public utilities. Mechanical patching will improve many miles more by addressing particular trouble spots on otherwise acceptable street corridors.     While many residents are continuing to work from home, the City will be continuing extra efforts to notify residents to move their vehicles to enable street resurfacing to proceed. Streets scheduled for resurfacing will be posted weekly on DOMI’s website and will be publicized through city social media channels. | 6/8/2021 10:36:47 |
| City Announces Masking Guidance for Employees and City Facilities | PITTSBURGH, PA (August 6, 2021) The City of Pittsburgh announced updated mask guidance for all City facilities based on CDC guidance beginning today. Individuals who are unvaccinated are required to wear masks at all times inside City facilities. Vaccinated individuals are required to wear masks in common areas, shared vehicles and group settings.   This applies to City of Pittsburgh office buildings, satellite sites like public safety and public works facilities, community recreation centers and healthy active living senior centers.  At this time, this does not apply to outdoor City facilities. The City will require vaccinations as a condition of employment for all new City employees. Beginning August 16, 2021 existing non-union employees will be required to be fully vaccinated or will be required to take weekly COVID tests and wear masks. The City will be meeting with unions representing remaining employees to discuss additional vaccination and testing requirements. | 6/8/2021 15:02:36 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Friday, August 6, 2021 | Groundbreaking for Beacon Communities RedevelopmentTime: 1:00 p.m.Location: 327 N Negley AvenueRBI Citisports PNC ChampionshipsTime: 2:00 p.m.Location: PNC Park | 6/8/2021 09:04:02 |
| Five-Way Intersection in Friendship to Close this Weekend for Community Asphalt Art Installation | PITTSBURGH, PA (August 6, 2021) The City of Pittsburgh’s Department of Mobility and Infrastructure (DOMI) is announcing the closure of a five-way intersection in the Friendship neighborhood this Saturday, August 7 and Sunday, August 8 from 7 a.m. to 9 p.m. both days. Portions of three roads will be closed to thru traffic for the community installation of an asphalt art project.  The following roads will be closed:  - Roup Avenue from Friendship Avenue to Baum Boulevard - S Fairmount Street from Friendship Avenue to Baum Boulevard - Harriet Street from Graham Street to S Fairmount Street and Roup Avenue Detours will be posted. Local access to nearby residences and businesses will be maintained. DOMI has already completed safety enhancements for pedestrians and traffic calming at this intersection in partnership with the community. The Friendship Community Group, with funding from Bloomberg Philanthropies, has worked with an artist to design street murals. Additional information about the Friendship Community Group’s asphalt art community painting event is available here or on their website. | 6/8/2021 09:54:40 |
| City of Pittsburgh Seeks Artists for Public Art Opportunity in Homewood Park | PITTSBURGH, PA (August 9, 2021) The City of Pittsburgh Department of City Planning (DCP) and Department of Public Works (DPW) are seeking artists to submit their qualifications for an opportunity to create public art as part of the Homewood Park and Willie Stargell Field improvement project. Up to three artists or artist teams will be selected to work with the community to create public art inspired by Homewood’s history, notable neighbors, organizations and events.   The park improvement project is being guided by the Homewood Park Master Plan which was developed by the community in 2015. The plan outlines including a community gathering space in the park called the hub, which will house the new public art feature on surfaces like pavement, steps, ramps, building facades or as a standalone feature.   “We are excited to see the hard work in Homewood Park start to come to life,” said Mayor William Peduto. “This Percent for Art project will not only elevate artists and their work, it will also celebrate the Homewood community’s rich history in an innovative and accessible way.”   The $120,000 funding for this public art project comes from the City’s Percent for Art ordinance, which stipulates at least one percent of the budget for municipal construction or the renovation of public buildings are to be allocated to fund works of art.    The project team, which includes DPW, DCP, Studio Zewde and other community stakeholders, are seeking artists who have completed at least one prior project of significant impact and scale. Artists from Homewood are strongly encouraged to apply. A copy of the request for proposals is available here and applicants must apply through Beacon, the City’s online procurement system.The Department of City Planning’s Public Art and Civic Design division will hold two artist information sessions on August 23 and 24 to provide interested artists with an overview of the opportunity, a tutorial for registering in Beacon and a walkthrough of the steps for this specific project. Applications are being accepted now through September 7.  To learn more about the project, find links to the information sessions and the application, visit the Homewood Park Improvement Project EngagePGH Page. | 9/8/2021 12:21:50 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Monday, August 9, 2021 | No public events scheduled. | 9/8/2021 08:55:11 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Tuesday, August 10, 2021 | No public events scheduled. | 10/8/2021 08:48:44 |
| Deputy Chief of Staff and Chief Equity Officer Announces Departure from City Government Next Month | PITTSBURGH, PA (August 10, 2021) The City of Pittsburgh Office of Mayor William Peduto’s Deputy Chief of Staff and Chief Equity Officer Majestic Lane has announced he will be leaving his positions with the City next month.  “Majestic has been an invaluable leader and part of our team these past five years,” said Mayor Peduto. “His work has changed the way Pittsburgh makes decisions to implement equitable policy and investments and support community-driven development. Under his leadership, we introduced Pittsburgh’s first Office of Equity. Majestic has set a new, higher standard for how cities can institutionalize prioritizing equity. It has been my honor to work with such a thoughtful, intentional colleague and wish him the best in continuing to raise the standards for equity in our region.”Chief Lane joined Mayor Peduto’s administration as the Deputy Chief of the Bureau of Neighborhood Empowerment in 2016. He became the Deputy Chief of Staff and Chief Equity Officer in 2019, where he oversaw the launch of, and managed, the Office of Equity, the fifth such office in the United States. In his time with the City, Chief Lane has led the administration’s focus on using a lens of equity when making policy, development and economic decisions, keeping in mind that government affects people, not just places. He used his people-centered approach to leverage opportunities for government to provide help and guidance to lift the voices of underserved and underinvested neighborhoods to advocate for community-driven development.  Chief Lane led the City’s engagement with national organizations on equity and inclusion strategies, including the Government Alliance for Race and Equity, National League of Cities, Global Lead City Network and more. He worked with all City departments to establish processes to ensure that during the planning process, budget investments and decisions actively consider equity and how decisions will affect Black and Brown communities.Of his leadership in the Office of Equity, Chief Lane said, “We infuse our work with the belief that our young people and children, especially Black young men and boys, and women of all ages deserve access to opportunities to succeed. All persons in our city deserve to feel respected, safe and welcome regardless of their race, identity, ability, sexual orientation, gender identity, ethnicity, place of origin, housing status, substance use, age or veteran status. Our small businesses, especially those owned by minorities and women, deserve support to succeed to make our neighborhoods, communities and economy stronger.   “We believe this work is dignifying and important for the City of Pittsburgh. This work is done in collaboration and partnership with all City departments, governmental agencies, local community organizations, and national organizations through creating policy, programs, and services that put people first.” The numerous projects Chief Lane has completed and overseen in his five years with the City include:  - Served on the Affordable Housing Task Force - Assisted setting up with Housing Opportunity Fund, dedicating $10 million a year for the development and preservation of affordable housing citywide - Innovated the P4 Framework for City decisions to support people, planet, place and performance - Established the Housing Assistance Resource Portal - Created the Office of Business Diversity, which helped institutionalize and increased minority and women-owned business (MWBE) contracting with the City- Launched the Office of Community Health and Safety  - Introduced the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals for the City to follow  - Coordinated community-police relations initiatives - Set up the My Brother’s Keeper Initiative Coordinator position for the City- Instituted Financial Empowerment Centers - Started the creation of digital equity initiatives like Rec2Tech  Chief Lane also served on the Board of Directors for the Housing Authority for the City of Pittsburgh, Partner4Work, Green Building Alliance and others.  His final day with the City will be on September 17, 2021. He will take on the role of Chief Equity Officer for the Allegheny Conference on Community Development on October 18. | 10/8/2021 17:00:32 |
| City Purchases 14 Additional Street, Parks and Snow Maintenance Vehicles | PITTSBURGH, PA (August 11, 2021) The City of Pittsburgh and Equipment Leasing Authority (ELA) have announced that they have been able to repurpose funding that has allowed for the City to purchase additional park maintenance and snow operations vehicles.  The City has purchased 13 pick-up trucks equipped with snow plows and salt spreaders and a one-ton dump truck equipped with snow plow and salt spreader.  The pick-up vehicles will be able to be used for parks and streets maintenance all year round as plow and salt spreading equipment are removable.  “It is important that we are investing in the tools and equipment to help our hardworking crews in Public Works who are out around the clock in difficult snow and ice conditions,” said Public Works Acting Director Chris Hornstein. “This is just the beginning and we will continue to provide them the equipment they need to provide the best, high quality service to the public.” | 11/8/2021 11:30:02 |
| URA Announces $24 Million in New Community Investment in Avenues of Hope Corridors | PITTSBURGH, PA (August 11, 2021) Mayor William Peduto and the Urban Redevelopment Authority (URA) announced a series of community investments in the Avenues of Hope initiative through a new real estate funding program as well as four housing and development projects in Hazelwood, Hill District and Larimer, currently totaling over $24 million in investment. Avenues of Hope is a place-based, people-first approach that focuses on revitalizing seven major business corridors in Black and diverse neighborhoods through targeted investment in residents, businesses, entrepreneurs and housing to support inclusive growth of the neighborhoods.  The new Avenues of Hope Commercial Real Estate Investment Program (ACRE) will provide up to $200,000 in long-term capital to local and minority small businesses and developers for site acquisition and preparations, building costs and construction and soft costs associated with real estate development. This new tool will help in real estate revitalization efforts by filling funding gaps in Avenues of Hope real estate projects, allowing these critical developments to move forward.  The URA has proposed selling parcels for four development projects in Avenues of Hope areas in partnership with the local community and using neighborhood-defined master plans as guidance:  Hazelwood The City of Bridges Community Land Trust has been selected to develop affordable, for-sale homes on a residential block between Chatsworth Avenue and Osprey Way in Hazelwood. Following the Greater Hazelwood Neighborhood Plan, 12 permanently affordable single-family homes will be newly constructed for sale to households earning between 60-80% of area median income. This has been selected as one of 15 projects nationwide to participate in the International Living Future Institute’s Affordable Housing Pilot for the Living Building Challenge. The current estimate for investment in this project is $4.8 million.  Hill District A project along the Centre Avenue corridor in the Hill District has been proposed by the Sankofa Group that will include a $9 million construction of a 45,000 square foot, three-story commercial space and parking lot. The first floor will house Smoketown Culinary at Sankofa Square, which will serve as a launching site for local entrepreneurs in the food industry who will grow beyond the hall itself and add new concepts to the Hill and surrounding communities. The additional floors will be available as office space.  A $2.4 million housing development is also being proposed in the Hill District, following the 2015 Centre Avenue Corridor Redevelopment and Design Plan and the 2011 Greater Hill District Master Plan. R. Kyndall Development Group will purchase five vacant lots on Rose Street to construct six new for-sale homes. Of the six 1,700-2,000 square foot, 2-3 bedroom, 2 bathroom and integral garage units to be developed, four will be market rate and two will be affordable to households at or below 80% area median income.  Larimer A $7.9 million, 40,665 square-foot nonprofit recreation facility that will include squash courts, classrooms and meeting space for the community will be developed in Larimer by Steel City Squash. The nonprofit launched in 2015 to provide programming focused on education, mentoring, community service, travel and the sport of squash and will work in partnership with the community throughout the design of the project. These Avenues of Hope projects will be presented to the URA Board at their regular meeting this Thursday. | 11/8/2021 09:11:27 |
| URA Announces $24 Million in New Community Investment in Avenues of Hope Corridors | PITTSBURGH, PA (August 11, 2021) Mayor William Peduto and the Urban Redevelopment Authority (URA) announced a series of community investments in the Avenues of Hope initiative through a new real estate funding program as well as four housing and development projects in Hazelwood, Hill District and Larimer, currently totaling over $24 million in investment. Avenues of Hope is a place-based, people-first approach that focuses on revitalizing seven major business corridors in Black and diverse neighborhoods through targeted investment in residents, businesses, entrepreneurs and housing to support inclusive growth of the neighborhoods.  The new Avenues of Hope Commercial Real Estate Investment Program will provide up to $200,000 in long-term capital to local and minority small businesses and developers for site acquisition and prep, building costs and construction, and soft costs associated with real estate development. This new tool will help in real estate revitalization efforts by filling funding gaps in Avenues of Hope real estate projects, allowing these critical developments to move forward.  The URA has proposed selling parcels for four development projects in Avenues of Hope areas in partnership with the local community and using neighborhood-defined master plans as guidance:  Hazelwood The City of Bridges Community Land Trust has been selected to develop affordable, for-sale homes on a residential block between Chatsworth Avenue and Osprey Way in Hazelwood. Following the Greater Hazelwood Neighborhood Plan, 12 permanently affordable single-family homes will be newly constructed for sale to households earning between 60-80% of area median income. This has been selected as one of 15 projects nationwide to participate in the International Living Future Institute’s Affordable Housing Pilot for the Living Building Challenge. The current estimate for investment into this project is $4.8 million.  Hill District A project along the Centre Avenue corridor in the Hill has been proposed by the Sankofa Group that will include a $9 million construction of a 45,000 square foot, three-story commercial space and parking lot. The first floor will house Smoketown Culinary at Sankofa Square, which will serve as a launching site for local entrepreneurs in the food industry who will grow beyond the hall itself and add new concepts to the Hill and surrounding communities. The additional floors will be available as office space.  A $2.4 million housing development is also being proposed in the Hill District, following the 2015 Centre Avenue Corridor Redevelopment and Design Plan and the 2011 Greater Hill District Master Plan. R. Kyndall Development Group will purchase five vacant lots on Rose Street to construct six new for-sale homes. Of the six 1,700-2,000 square foot, 2-3 bedroom, 2 bathroom and integral garage units to be developed, four will be market rate and two will be affordable to households at or below 80% area median income.  Larimer A $7.9 million, 40,665 square-foot nonprofit recreation facility that will include squash courts, classrooms and meeting space for the community by Steel City Squash will be developed in Larimer. The nonprofit launched in 2015 to provide programming focused on education, mentoring, community service, travel and the sport of squash and will work in partnership with the community throughout the design of the project. These Avenues of Hope projects will be presented to the URA Board at their regular meeting this Thursday. | 10/8/2021 15:22:57 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Wednesday, August 11, 2021 | Shade Tree Commission MeetingTime: 10:30 a.m.Location: Mayor's OfficeRoundtable with U.S. Commerce Deputy Secretary Don Graves and Congressman Mike DoyleTime: 12:00 p.m.Location: Energy Innovation Center | 11/8/2021 09:09:09 |
| URA Seeking Proposals to Develop Community Plans for Chartiers and Perrysville Business Districts in Avenues of Hope Corridors | PITTSBURGH, PA (August 12, 2021) Mayor William Peduto has announced that the Urban Redevelopment Authority of Pittsburgh (URA) is requesting proposals to develop community-based plans to assist in the redevelopment of the Chartiers and Perrysville business districts as part of the Avenues of Hope initiative.  The URA is seeking the services from planning, economic development and commercial market professionals to conduct strategic business district planning for the Chartiers, Perrysville/Five Points and Perrysville/Charles business districts.  “Successful development and revitalization fulfills the local community’s vision for their neighborhood,” said Mayor Peduto. “Since these three areas lack written business district plans, we need to work with residents and businesses to create them so that we can drive investment into what the community wants to see on these avenues.”   Those selected will support the inclusive redevelopment of these business districts by developing strategies for each of the corridors by:  - Working with URA staff and stakeholders to collect data for the corridor, including properties, business mix, public safety statistics and rental rates.  - Reviewing market data to determine potential business mix.  - Meeting with existing businesses and community stakeholders to gather information, determine community preferences in terms of business mix and development priorities and get feedback on proposed recommendations.  - Developing recommendations for the implementation of the plan.   "One of the critical aspects of the Avenues of Hope initiative is to have a complete picture of the potential of each of the corridors and to work with the community to determine development priorities. This process will help us to achieve that goal," URA Deputy Executive Director Diamonte Walker said. These plans will lay out the needs and wants of the community and be used to identify and guide investments in these business districts. Once priorities are defined, the URA, through the Avenues of Hope initiative, can assist with recruiting developers, businesses, entrepreneurs and organizations as well as provide funding resources to invest in revitalizing the corridors based on the community’s vision.  “I want to thank Mayor Peduto, Executive Director Flisram and Deputy Executive Director Walker for identifying the need for economic development for all of Chartiers Avenue from West End to Windgap-Chartiers City,” said City Council President Theresa Kail-Smith. “Our residents want to see new businesses, jobs, entertainment and opportunities in their neighborhoods and we look forward to attracting investment in District 2.” “Small business districts are the beating heart of our neighborhoods, not only offering goods and services, but a place for the community to gather,” said District 1 City Councilman Bobby Wilson. “I’m so glad to see this much needed investment in our Perrysville Ave corridor, supporting existing business owners and bringing more storefronts to the neighborhood. This investment is also an important complement to the affordable housing and housing stabilization efforts of the Observatory Hill and Perry Hilltop communities.” “Both creating and reestablishing parts of Perrysville Ave as a strong business corridor is critical to the long term health of the North Side,” said District 6 City Councilman R. Daniel Lavelle. “In doing so, it is also critical to center minority businesses thus ensuring a diverse and vibrant community for decades to come. This first step of bringing on consultants to help with the strategic planning is important to ensuring our collective vision being realized.” Multiple awards may be made for this project and respondents can choose to focus on all three or may choose to focus on only one or two. The request for proposals (RFP) will open tomorrow, August 13, and can be found on the URA’s proposals and bids webpage. Proposals are due September 10, 2021.  Avenues of Hope is a place-based, people-first initiative that focuses on revitalizing seven major business corridors in Black and diverse neighborhoods through targeted investment in residents, businesses, entrepreneurs and housing to support inclusive growth of the neighborhoods. | 12/8/2021 10:29:48 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Thursday, August 12, 2021 | Meeting with Secretary Marty WalshTime: 3:45 p.m. | 12/8/2021 09:02:02 |
| Blue Recycling Bin Distribution Phase 3 to Begin August 17 | PITTSBURGH, PA (August 12, 2021) Mayor William Peduto today announced that the Department of Public Works Environmental Services Division will begin phase 3 of its distribution of 32-gallon blue curbside recycling bins to city residents on August 17. The distribution program is part of a transition away from a bag-based recycling program into a bin-based collection method. The Blue Bin Rollout program began in the fall of 2020. Over a two-year period, the City of Pittsburgh is distributing over 100,000 blue recycling bins to those they service – single family homes, duplexes and apartment buildings with five or fewer units – with a goal of becoming BAG FREE BY ‘23.  This third phase will serve homes in the remaining central and eastern neighborhoods. Residents of southern, western and northern neighborhoods will receive bins in 2022 and can find a timeline for their neighborhood here.  “The City of Pittsburgh is now offering residents a method that makes it easy for people to create the habit of single-stream recycling, which allows residents to combine all recyclable materials in one container,” said Mayor William Peduto. “Blue bins offer many advantages such as saving on costs for both residents and the City, providing high-value recyclables to the circular economy and cutting contamination.” Prior to receiving the new recycling bins, residents will receive notification via U.S. Mail announcing when to anticipate the arrival of their new blue curbside recycling containers, along with information on what can and cannot be placed in the bin. Rehrig Pacific Company – which is manufacturing the bins in Pennsylvania – will deliver a 32-gallon blue recycling bin with tight-fitting lid to each designated residence. Each bin will come with an information packet describing its proper use, and each bin will be scanned and linked to a specific address. Up to two 18-gallon totes are available as an alternative for medical exemption. Qualifying individuals must contact 311 City Response Center to request totes. When using the blue bins, residents must loosely place recyclables in the bins without plastic bags, which can jam up equipment at processing facilities. Residents can deposit into the bins glass and plastic bottles, jugs and jars (lids removed), aluminum and steel cans, and mixed paper. Clean cardboard must be flattened, boxed and placed next to the bin. A series of webinars on how to recycle correctly with the City of Pittsburgh were hosted earlier this year and a video is available here. Residents can learn more about the Blue Bin Rollout program and recycling in the City of Pittsburgh by visiting the website or by contacting 311.  Funding for the Blue Bin Rollout is provided in part by grants from the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection, The Recycling Partnership and Mayor Peduto's commitment to move the city toward zero waste. | 12/8/2021 11:08:55 |
| Office of Community Health and Safety Launches New Website | PITTSBURGH, PA (August 12, 2021) The City of Pittsburgh’s newest office, the Office of Community Health and Safety (OCH&amp;S), has launched a new website with information and interactive tools focused on people-centered programs, equity, justice and harm reduction that address individuals’ health and safety needs.  OCH&amp;S is developing programs guided by evidence-based practices and community input. This includes hiring social workers, outreach workers and other professionals who can assist individuals and first responders in situations that require longer-term support like those involving mental and behavioral health conditions, homelessness and substance use.  OCH&amp;S’ new website includes:  - Social service navigation information and additional resources  - Nationally-recognized Opioid Overdose Dashboard used to identify and address trends in overdose prevention and harm reduction strategies  - Job postings for open OCH&amp;S positions  - Information about the Neighborhood Health and Safety Academy  - Public Service Announcements (PSAs), such as this latest one about the heightened risk of fentanyl exposure and overdose risk for people who use drugs The website can be found here and additional questions can be directed to ochspgh@pittsburghpa.gov. | 12/8/2021 10:06:26 |
| City Launches New Comprehensive Parks and Trails Website | PITTSBURGH, PA (August 13, 2021) Today, the City of Pittsburgh Office of Mayor William Peduto, Departments of Innovation &amp; Performance (I&amp;P), Parks &amp; Recreation, and Public Works have launched CitiParks, the city’s first official comprehensive and interactive public parks and trails website.  The CitiParks website was created by the I&amp;P GIS &amp; Communications team and provides detailed interactive maps, historical information, attractions, shelter information, public art, amenities and more for our five Allegheny Regional Asset District parks (Schenley, Frick, Riverview, Emerald View, and Highland Parks). The site also features information and resources on the city’s 10 Community Parks, riverfronts, and 150 Neighborhood Parks. I&amp;P’s Applications team has mapped over 130 miles of trails using a high accuracy GPS unit to compile the first ever comprehensive trail map of Pittsburgh that includes trails in parks, greenways, and riverfront trails.  The trails are categorized by difficulty and display elevation information to give the public a resource to plan their trips. This data will also be used internally for planning, maintenance, and public safety purposes. “This critical information had been missing for far too long,” said Mayor Peduto. “We have always known the social, health and economic impacts of having access to park and recreation space, but during the pandemic, we all saw firsthand how much we relied on our parks. Now, we’re able to provide the people of Pittsburgh with a place to learn about their parks like never before.” The website combines the new features and tools with all existing relevant park information in one convenient landing page, which features the public’s most sought after park resources in one place including:  - Parks &amp; Trails - Swimming Pools - Spray Parks - Sports Fields - Park Rangers - Shelters - Recreation Centers - Special Events - Parks Maintenance “So many City Departments work collaboratively for the good of our parks,” said Ross Chapman, Director of the Department of Parks &amp; Recreation. “Providing quality parks and critical programming is a team effort. For the public however, it was becoming confusing to find information. Housing it all under the CitiParks banner makes the most sense.” The City of Pittsburgh’s official website for its park system is available for the public, community groups, and partner organizations at citiparks.net or pittsburghpa.gov/citiparks. This project would not have been possible without the work of the Departments of Innovation &amp; Performance, Parks &amp; Recreation, and Public Works. | 13/8/2021 11:47:51 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Friday, August 13, 2021 | No public events scheduled. | 13/8/2021 08:23:27 |
| Milling and Paving Resume Monday | PITTSBURGH, PA (August 13, 2021) The City of Pittsburgh Department of Mobility and Infrastructure (DOMI) is continuing its 2021 milling and paving program next week.   Streets being milled include:   Obey Ave, Corso Way, Magnus St, Cameron Ave, Navajo Way, Eleanor St, Gregory St, Handler St, Mary Jane St, Mary St, Dakota St, West Sycamore St, Libson St (Balboa St), Terrace St, Whitridge St and Allequippa St. Streets being paved include:   Amberson Ave, Hagy Pl, Waldeck St, Sylvan Ave, Obey Ave, Corso Way, Magnus St, Cameron St, Navajo Way, Dakota St, West Sycamore St, Lisbon St (Balboa St), Terrace St, Whitridge St and Allequippa St. The full paving schedule for the week, including further details on streets and intersections, is available here.   This year the City is investing nearly $16 million in the street resurfacing program, which supports asphalt street resurfacing, ADA curb ramp upgrades on paved streets, and repair of concrete, brick and block stone streets throughout Pittsburgh. Approximately 34 miles of streets will be resurfaced this year. Additional mileage will be resurfaced through cooperation agreements with local public utilities. Mechanical patching will improve many miles more by addressing particular trouble spots on otherwise acceptable street corridors.      While many residents are continuing to work from home, the City will be continuing extra efforts to notify residents to move their vehicles to enable street resurfacing to proceed. Streets scheduled for resurfacing will be posted weekly on DOMI’s website and will be publicized through city social media channels. | 13/8/2021 11:44:50 |
| Installation of Speed Humps on California Avenue Next Week | PITTSBURGH, PA (August 13, 2021) The Department of Mobility and Infrastructure (DOMI) is pleased to announce the installation of traffic calming measures on California Avenue from Rankin Avenue to Bainton Street.  Data collected during the fall indicated that 94% of vehicles traveling on California Avenue exceed the posted speed limit of 25 mph, with an 85th percentile speed of 41 mph.  Coupled with a long crash history, this rate of speeding indicated a strong need for a traffic calming intervention.The project will include the construction of three speed humps on California Avenue.  Permanent signage and pavement markings will be installed to alert motorists of approaching speed humps.  Speed humps are midblock traffic calming devices that raise the entire wheelbase of a vehicle to reduce its speed.Work is tentatively expected to begin the week of Monday August 16 through Friday August 20, 2021, and is expected to last two days, weather permitting.  Hours of construction will be 7:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m.  One lane of traffic on California Avenue will be closed to traffic, with flaggers stationed at each intersection in order to allow for local traffic access to and from their residences.  Temporary "no parking" signage will be posted at each speed hump location.If you have questions about this project or other traffic calming projects, you may contact us by email at trafficcalming@pittsburghpa.gov, or by calling 3-1-1 or 412-255-2621.  You can learn more about DOMI’s Neighborhood Traffic Calming Program at www.pittsburghpa.gov/domi/traffic-calming. | 13/8/2021 13:18:23 |
|  | No public events scheduled. | 13/8/2021 07:13:20 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Monday, August 16, 2021 | No public events scheduled. | 16/8/2021 09:12:00 |
| City Launches New and Improved Website for City Parks and Trails | PITTSBURGH, PA (August 16, 2021) Today, the City of Pittsburgh Office of Mayor William Peduto, Departments of Innovation &amp; Performance (I&amp;P), Parks and Recreation, and Public Works (DPW) have launched CitiParks, the city’s first official comprehensive and interactive public parks, recreation and trails website.  The CitiParks website provides detailed information about attractions, event shelters, public art, and amenities as well as interactive maps and more for the city's five Allegheny Regional Asset District parks (Schenley, Frick, Riverview, Emerald View, and Highland Parks). The site also features information and resources on the city’s 10 Community Parks, riverfronts, and 150 Neighborhood Parks. I&amp;P has mapped over 160 miles of trails using a high accuracy GPS unit to compile the first-ever comprehensive trail map of Pittsburgh that includes trails through parks, greenways, and riverfronts. The trails are categorized by difficulty and display elevation information to give the public a resource to plan their trips. This data will also be used internally for planning, maintenance, and public safety purposes. “This critical information had been missing for far too long,” said Mayor Peduto. “We have always known the social, health and economic impacts of having access to park and recreation space, but during the pandemic we all saw firsthand how much we relied on our parks. Now, we’re able to provide the people of Pittsburgh with a place to learn about their parks like never before.” The website combines the new features and tools with all existing relevant park information in one convenient landing page, which features the public’s most sought after park resources in one place including:  - Parks &amp; Trails - Swimming Pools - Spray Parks - Sports Fields - Park Rangers - Shelters - Recreation Centers - Special Events - Parks Maintenance “So many City Departments work collaboratively for the good of our parks,” said Ross Chapman, Director of the Department of Parks &amp; Recreation. “Providing quality parks and critical programming is a team effort. For the public however, it was becoming confusing to find information. Housing it all under the CitiParks banner makes the most sense.” The City of Pittsburgh’s official website for its park system is available for the public, community groups, and partner organizations at citiparks.net or pittsburghpa.gov/citiparks. This project was made possible through the collaboration of several departments and staff. The project was managed by James Hill of the Office of the Mayor. Park and amenity information was provided by Tom Paulin, DPW Superintendent of Parks, and numerous helpful staff from DPW and Parks and Recreation, including Allison Botti and Sue Lucas. The trails were mapped using GPS by Matt Jacob of I&amp;P’s Applications team. The website was created by I&amp;P’s GIS and Communications Services teams, including Smyth Welton, Thomas Allison and Giovanni Svevo. Park historical information was provided by Nick Hartley and Charles Succop of the City Archives. | 16/8/2021 11:25:17 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Tuesday, August 17, 2021 | Interview with Adam SmeltzTime: 1 p.m.City of Pittsburgh Summer Intern Virtual CelebrationTime: 4:45 p.m. | 17/8/2021 09:26:50 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Wednesday, August 18, 2021 | Lubert-Adler Kaufmann's Building Ribbon CuttingTime: 2:00 p.m.Location: 434 Fifth Avenue | 18/8/2021 09:32:09 |
| Welcoming Pittsburgh and the All for All Coalition Receive $30,000 Grant to Connect Public-Nonprofit Services for Immigrant and Refugee Communities | PITTSBURGH, PA (August 19, 2021) Mayor William Peduto announced today that the Program to Aid Citizen Enterprise (PACE) and the Bayer Center for Nonprofit Management at Robert Morris University has awarded a $30,000 grant to support the collaboration between the City’s Welcoming Pittsburgh initiative and The Global Switchboard’s All for All Coalition. Building on an existing partnership in coordinating supportive and welcoming services, Welcoming Pittsburgh and the All for All Coalition are applying the funds to implement a new model designed to better understand and address immigrant and refugee communities’ needs through the collaboration and coordination of public, nonprofit and community-based resources.   The model includes a series of direct discussions with immigrant and refugee individuals to better understand barriers to relationships with government and other resources, with particular emphasis on individuals who have recently arrived in Pittsburgh. Participants will be compensated through the funding and their responses will be used to determine what kinds of opportunities and services communities need.   "We are excited to advance our partnership with All for All to jump-start this program,” said Feyisola Akintola, Special Initiatives Manager for the Mayor’s Office of Equity. “Welcoming Pittsburgh convenes service providers and immigrant leaders, but this pilot allows us to speak directly with more international community members and as a result, allow their input to inform the services and the ways in which we communicate our work to lead to a more accessible government." Through these community conversations, the collaborative effort between Welcoming Pittsburgh and the All for All Coalition will result in improved communication pathways between government and communities with better access to resources such as homeownership support, community health and safety training and workforce development programs.   Conversation responses will also be used by policymakers to gauge the effectiveness of immigrant and refugee-focused and general equity programs in the region.   "The work done by the All for All Coalition members is vital to make our region more inclusive,” said Lais Alexander, All for All Coalition Manager. “Along with the Welcoming Pittsburgh support, we have been experiencing increased initiatives within our network aiming to minimize the distance between communities, organizations, and government. We are excited to continue this partnership and the outcome of engaging with newcomers.” Implementation of the new model of direct engagement has begun and will further expand the impact of the Welcoming Pittsburgh Roadmap, created under Mayor Peduto’s leadership by immigrant and refugee community stakeholders, that provides a plan for how city governments can best address barriers that directly impact our immigrant and refugee communities. | 19/8/2021 09:47:26 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Thursday, August 19, 2021 | Tree Pittsburgh 15th Anniversary and Open HouseTime: 10 a.m.Interview with Don HopeyTime: 1 p.m.Bob O'Connor Foundation Cookie CruiseTime: 5:00 p.m.Annual Bocce TournamentTime: 6 p.m. | 19/8/2021 09:09:55 |
| Road Closures for CAP Project Work | PITTSBURGH, PA (August 20, 2021) The City of Pittsburgh Department of Mobility and Infrastructure has announced several closures related to the CAP Project: Centre Avenue southbound between Washington Place and Chatham Street will continue to experience single lane closures, daily, as needed, from 7AM-5PM Monday, August 23, 2021 through Tuesday, November 2, 2021.  The right lane of Center Avenue Southbound will be closed to traffic.  When travelling through the work area, use caution and expect delays. Washington Place southbound between Webster Avenue and Center Avenue will continue to experience a single lane closure, daily, as needed, from 7AM-5PM Monday, August 23, 2021 through Tuesday, November 2, 2021.   The right lane of Washington Place Southbound will be closed to traffic.   Chatham Street southbound between Webster Avenue and Center Avenue will continue to experience intermittent full closures, daily, as needed, from 7AM-5PM Monday, August 23, 2021 through Tuesday, November 2, 2021.   Also, Chatham Street Parking will be closed weekdays, Monday through Friday, from 7AM-5:30PM starting Monday, August 23, 2021 through Tuesday, November 2, 2021 Traffic will be detoured along Bigelow Blvd/Webster Ave. to Washington Place, and then to Centre Avenue.   Webster Avenue/ Bigelow Boulevard eastbound between Chatham Street and Washington Place will continue to experience lane closures, daily, as needed, from 7AM-5PM Monday, August 23, 2021 through Tuesday, November 2, 2021. The right lane of Webster Avenue/Bigelow Boulevard Eastbound will be closed to traffic.   When travelling through the work area, use caution and expect delays.The work is being performed by JB Fay Co., If you have any questions concerning this closure, please contact their Project Manager, Chuck Grabner, at 412-779-8354. | 20/8/2021 15:55:56 |
| City Announces 28th Street Bridge Lane Restrictions | PITTSBURGH, PA (August 20, 2021) The Department of Mobility and Infrastructure (DOMI) has announced that the 28th Street Bridge is scheduled for an in-depth inspection from Tuesday, August 24 to Saturday, August 28. The work will require intermittent lane closures on the bridge between 9 a.m. and 3 p.m.The work is being performed by Alfred Benesch &amp; Co. to facilitate the rehabilitation analysis of the bridge that was originally constructed in 1931. In addition to repairing and strengthening the bridge, the goal of the project is to improve multimodal access to Polish Hill and the Strip District.Signs will be posted and flaggers will be used to direct traffic.Thank you for your cooperation during this time and we hope there will be only minor inconveniences. If you have any questions or require further information regarding this closure you may contact the City’s Response Center by calling 311 or 412-255-2621.If you are interested in further information regarding this project and others,please follow this link to DOMI's project fact sheets: https://pittsburghpa.gov/domi/current-projects/. | 20/8/2021 11:01:35 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Friday, August 20, 2021 | Speaking at the 2021 Basic Income Earth Network World CongressTime: 12:00 p.m. | 20/8/2021 09:12:22 |
| Milling and Paving to Resume Monday | PITTSBURGH, PA (August 20, 2021) The City of Pittsburgh Department of Mobility and Infrastructure (DOMI) is continuing its 2021 milling and paving program next week.    Streets being milled include:    Gregory St, Handler St, Mary Jane St, Mary St, Dakota St, Terrace St, Whitridge St, Allequippa St, Bentley Dr, Monaca Way, Webster Ave, Bedford Ave and Crawford St. Streets being paved include:    Parkman Ave, Amberson Ave, Kearns Ave, Obey Ave, Magnus St, Dakota St, Terrace St, Whitridge St, Allequippa St, Gregory St, Handler St, Mary Jane St and Mary St.  The full paving schedule for the week, including further details on streets and intersections, is available here.    This year the City is investing nearly $16 million in the street resurfacing program, which supports asphalt street resurfacing, ADA curb ramp upgrades on paved streets, and repair of concrete, brick and block stone streets throughout Pittsburgh.  Approximately 34 miles of streets will be resurfaced this year. Additional mileage will be resurfaced through cooperation agreements with local public utilities. Mechanical patching will improve many miles more by addressing particular trouble spots on otherwise acceptable street corridors.       While many residents are continuing to work from home, the City will be continuing extra efforts to notify residents to move their vehicles to enable street resurfacing to proceed. Streets scheduled for resurfacing will be posted weekly on DOMI’s website and will be publicized through city social media channels. | 20/8/2021 15:48:03 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Monday, August 23, 2021 | Interview with Don HopeyTime: 11 a.m.Interview with Kevin BattleTime: 1 p.m.Press Conference on Goals on Littering and DumpingTime: 2 p.m.Location: Renfrew and Winfield, LarimerRibbon Cutting at NovasentaTime: 3:30 p.m. | 23/8/2021 08:51:13 |
| City Announces Agreement with Crown Castle for Unified Fiber Connectivity Network for City Facilities | PITTSBURGH, PA (August 23, 2021) Mayor William Peduto announced today an agreement with Crown Castle to provide the first unified fiber connectivity network for City facilities as part of the NetPGH initiative.  Crown Castle will help connect all 131 City facilities on a single network, including EMS stations, fire stations, recreation and healthy active living centers, and critical public safety infrastructure. Connecting all City facilities to a unified, high-speed network, when more than half currently operate on disparate institutional networks, will improve the delivery of core services to residents. The plan will enable expansion of the Rec2Tech initiative, which transforms the City’s recreation centers into learning labs where children can learn 21st century skills like coding and video game design. The agreement will also advance the Smart Corridors initiative to improve traffic efficiency and prioritize mobility of transit vehicles, cyclists, and pedestrians. The partnership with Crown Castle will allow for the future deployment of public Wi-Fi in city neighborhoods.  “The City’s agreement with Crown Castle will create a more resilient municipal government, enhance our ability to serve the public, and promote digital equity,” said Mayor Peduto. “I’d like to thank our Department of Innovation and Performance for their leadership on the NetPGH initiative.”   The ten-year agreement with Crown Castle totals $10,160,280. Legislation to authorize the agreement will be introduced to City Council on Tuesday, August 24. | 23/8/2021 12:17:47 |
| City Announces Goals on Littering and Dumping (GOLD) Plan | PITTSBURGH, PA (August 23, 2021) Mayor William Peduto joined the Department of Public Works and the Clean Pittsburgh Commission today to announce the City’s Goals on Littering and Dumping (GOLD) Plan for eradicating litter and illegal dumping citywide. The GOLD Plan is a two-pronged approach for city investments in anti-littering and dumping initiatives and opportunities for residents to help in their communities.  A recent litter cost study indicates that in Pennsylvania, taxpayers spend almost $68 million on litter and illegal dumping mitigation. Pittsburgh has over 800 known illegal dumping sites and is making investments to strengthen enforcement efforts to catch the perpetrators of this ugly crime that is seen frequently citywide. The City and Clean Pittsburgh Commission have announced new initiatives to combat litter, including: - New high resolution cameras purchased by the Clean Pittsburgh Commission to be placed at known dumping sites throughout the city to identify those illegally dumping and collect evidence. - Updating City Code to more clearly define litter and illegal dumping violations and to update penalties to include community restitution. - A recommendation to create positions that focus on enforcement and community outreach around illegal dumping, litter and other trash-related issues. "Littering and illegal dumping is a real problem in our city and it creates blight in our neighborhoods and our hillsides, but we must all work together to combat it,” said Mayor Peduto. “I'd like to thank the Clean Pittsburgh Commission for these important recommendations so that the city can dedicate more resources to addressing littering and dumping and look forward to continuing to working with our partners and our residents towards zero litter in our beautiful city.”  City officials also announced opportunities for residents and community groups to join in the campaign to end litter and dumping in the City of Pittsburgh, including: - Register volunteer neighborhood clean up events on the DPW website. DPW can provide gloves, bags and coordinate picking up refuse bags for your event. - Download the Litterati app to use during clean up events to pick up litter and data. This crowdsourced data will be the most detailed litter data ever collected in Pittsburgh, which DPW will use to develop a local litter index and inform future anti-litter initiatives.  - Go for GOLD with your neighbors in the fifth annual citywide Garbage Olympics on September 18, an annual competitive litter pick up event. Learn more and register here. The GOLD Plan was developed using data and information in partnership with the Clean Pittsburgh Commission, Allegheny CleanWays, Pennsylvania Resources Council, Pittsburgh Parks Conservancy and more. A copy of the plan is available here. | 23/8/2021 12:54:50 |
| City Proposes Adding Over 85 Streets to 2021 Paving Schedule | PITTSBURGH, PA (August 23, 2021) The Office of Mayor William Peduto announced today that they have submitted legislation to transfer an additional $4.7 million into the 2021 budget for paving, ADA curb ramp upgrades on paved streets, and repair of concrete, brick and block stone streets throughout Pittsburgh. The funding would cover adding over 85 streets for the paving schedule for this year.
The legislation will be introduced to City Council at their regular meeting on Tuesday.
The following streets have been proposed to be resurfaced through this funding:
|     |     |     |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Street | From | To |
| 20th Street | Smallman Street | Penn Avenue |
| 44th Street | Butler | Davison |
| 44th Street | Sherrod | Penn |
| 5th Avenue | Bellefield | Ruskin |
| Arlington | Patch at Amanda | Patch at Locust |
| Bantam Way | Dunster | Dead End |
| Beechwood | Northumberland | Wilkins |
| Burham | Sumner | Eleanor |
| Calvin | 44th | 42nd |
| Carnahan | Winchester | Crane Avenue |
| Cassina Way | Dunfermline | Homewood Avenue |
| Chalfont Street | Gearing Street | Estella Avenue |
| Clarendon | S Fairmont | Roup (both dead ends) |
| Clawson Street | Hamilton Avenue | Dead End |
| Climax Street | Blanco Way | Taft Avenue |
| Daleland | Avacoll | Dead End |
| Dix Way | Ashley Street | Paulson Avenue |
| East Kennedy Avenue | Perrysville Avenue | Goshen Street |
| Eckert | Lecky | Beaver/Preble |
| Ellsworth Ave | Morewood | Amberson |
| Elmbank | End | Newly incorpoated segment |
| Exeter | Tesla (DE) | Frank Street |
| Farmington | Park Entrance | Simona Drive |
| Frampton Avenue | Buffington Avenue | Taft Ave |
| Goshen Street | Kennedy Avenue | Hawkins Avenue |
| Hazeldell Street | Campo Way | Duffland |
| Highwood Street | Shadeland Avenue | Dead End |
| Hilton Street | Wymann | Herschell |
| Homestead | Commercial Street | Nevada Street |
| Idlewild Street | Homewood Avenue | Sterrett Street |
| Ingomar | Wenzell Avenue | Dead End |
| Isabella | Federal | Sandusky |
| Ivory Avenue | Peachtree Avenue | Rodenbaugh Avenue |
| Juniata Street | Manhattan | Chateau |
| Kensington Street | South Braddock | Montrose Street |
| Kirsopp | 1200 Block | Crane Avenue |
| Kohne | Fisher | Henger |
| Liliac | Graphic | Delevan |
| Los Angeles Avenue | Crosby | Shiras |
| Lowell | Shetland | Renfrew |
| Manetto Way | Station | Rodman |
| Mapledale Street |  |  |
| Marland Way | Wayside | Dead End |
| Metber Alley | Mary Street | Margaret Street |
| North Meadowcroft | 2400 Block |  |
| North Taylor Avenue | Day Way | Buena Vista Street |
| North Homewood Avenue | Hermitage Street | Upland Street |
| Northumberland | Denniston | Shady Avenue |
| Omaha Street | Merrimac | Bigham |
| Overbrook Boulevard | Sawmill Blvd | Fairland |
| Overlook Drrive | Panther Hollow Road | Schenley Oval Turnaround |
| Paul Place |  |  |
| Perry Street | Wylie | Webster |
| Perrysville Avenue | Charles Street | Marshall Avenue |
| Reamer | Brookline Boulevard | Altmar |
| Renfrew | Vanilla Way | Winfield |
| South Aiken Avenue | Ellsworth | Baum |
| Sapphire Way | Panama | Lorigan |
| Schenley Drrive | Lower Golf Course |  |
| Sheffield | Chateau | Manhattan |
| Sheridan Senior Center Lot |  |  |
| Sherlock Street | Kennedy Avenue | Hawkins Avenue |
| Siebert | Main |  |
| Stock Street | Ollie | McElhinney Avenue |
| Summit | 43rd | 44th |
| Tecumseh | Langhorn | Gertrude |
| Texola | Castlegate Ave | Briar Way |
| Traynor Way | Deely Street | Dead End |
| Viola Way | Watson | Catoctin |
| Walde Street | Otilla | Farina |
| Wandless | Wylie | Centre |
| Wellington | Sterling | Clover |
| Wickliff | 53rd | 54th |
| Wilbur | Grogan | Georgia |
| Winfield | Shetland | To Renfrew |
| Wooster | Wylie | Webster |
The proposed budget includes adding the following mechanical patching:
|     |     |     |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Street | From | To |
| Chartiers | Corliss |  |
| Juniata Street | Manhattan | Fulton Street |
| Manhattan Street | Sheffield | Stedman |
| Pennsylvania Ave | Brighton Road | Allegheny Avenue |
| Webster | Wandless |  |
| Wilkins | 5th | Beeler |
| Whited Street | Sawmill Run | Brookline Boulevard |
| Panther Hollow Road | Schenley Drrive | Panther Hollow Bridge |
| NorthHomewood Avenue | Cassina |  |
The funding also includes brick replacement work on Grant Street at Oliver Avenue. | 23/8/2021 10:33:50 |
| Mayor Peduto Introduces First-in-the-Nation Dark Sky Lighting Legislation for Energy and Environmental Sustainability | PITTSBURGH, PA (August 24, 2021) Mayor William Peduto and the Division of Sustainability and Resilience announced a new “Dark Sky Lighting” ordinance today for all city parks, facilities and street lights. Dark Sky Lighting is the use of technology, lower color temperature and shielding to minimize the use of outdoor lighting to only that needed for comfort and safety.  Dark Sky Lighting reduces unnecessary light pollution and dangerous glare that can come from lighting areas for no specific purpose, called over-lighting. Over-lighting and light pollution can negatively impact the mental and physical health of nearby neighbors, visibility for motorists, cyclists and pedestrians as well as habitats for plants, animals and birds. Dark Sky Lighting supports the city’s Climate Action Plan commitment to increase energy efficiency to reduce waste and improve building operations. Under the ordinance, the City will adhere to Dark Sky principles for its newly installed or retrofitted streetlights, newly constructed and renovated park spaces and playgrounds as well as newly constructed and renovated City-owned buildings.  Mayor Peduto was joined today by representatives of the National Aviary, Phipps Conservatory and Botanical Gardens and Pittsburgh Zoo and PPG Aquarium. All three major institutions have joined the City and pledged their commitment to Dark Sky Lighting principles in their facilities.  "By introducing Dark Sky legislation, the City is further advancing its commitment to light equity, reduction of energy consumption, and elimination of waste in accordance with our Climate Action Plan goals. Our park spaces and City facilities should serve as the model for others to follow" said Mayor Peduto. "I applaud the institutions joining the City in committing to this important initiative and encourage residents and developers to join the City to adhering to Dark Sky principles."  Mayor Peduto called on other institutions, companies and property owners to join in the Dark Sky Lighting principles commitment. The Office of Sustainability and Resilience will be compiling a guide for residents and businesses to scale and implement the principles on their property. The City of Pittsburgh developed the ordinance with assistance and support from the International Dark-Sky International Association, Biophilic Cities Network, Carnegie Mellon University and local partners.   "Pittsburgh is the first city to take a principles-based approach to legislation, clearly aligning with IDA’s values-centered approach to lighting", said Ruskin Hartley, Executive Director of the International Dark-Sky Association. "The proposed ordinance presents an opportunity to adopt policy that is easy to understand, implement, and enforce. We foresee this approach serving as a model for other municipalities looking to effectively reduce light pollution." "With the newly adopted Dark Sky Lighting principles, Pittsburgh continues to shape its vision for a biophilic city that combines an emphasis on climate action with the creation of urban landscapes that invite a connection to the larger natural world," said JD Brown, Program Director, Biophilic Cities Network. "Dark Sky Lighting provides an opportunity for city residents to reconnect with the night sky while also providing critical relief for birds and other wildlife that call the city home."  The Dark Sky Lighting ordinance legislation was presented to City Council today. A copy is available here. | 24/8/2021 12:12:07 |
| City to Expand Electric Vehicle Fleet with 36 New Electric Vehicles | PITTSBURGH, PA (August 24, 2021) Mayor William Peduto put forward legislation today to increase the capital equipment acquisition budget by $7.6 million, for a total of $10.4 million, to expand the City’s electric vehicle fleet with funding from the American Rescue Plan.  The funding includes the purchase of five electric refuse packers and two electric recycling packers, the first in the City of Pittsburgh. It also proposes purchasing:  - 2 Electric DPW Forestry Pickup Trucks - 1 Electric Parks &amp; Rec Pickup Truck - 5 Electric DPW Facilities Pickup Trucks - 3 Electric DPW Facilities Vans - 2 Electric Motor Pool Vehicles - 13 Electric PLI Inspector Vehicles - 3 Electric DOMI Pickup Trucks The funding includes additional electric vehicle charging infrastructure for the City. The investment supports the goals laid out in the City’s Climate Action Plan 3.0 to operate a fossil-fuel-free fleet and reduce transportation emissions by 2030.  The legislation also includes using American Rescue Plan funding to purchase two aerial fire trucks and one pumper fire truck. | 24/8/2021 10:38:16 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Tuesday, August 24, 2021 | Press Conference for Dark Sky Lighting Ordinance with National Aviary, Phipps Conservatory and Botanical Gardens, and Pittsburgh Zoo and PPG AquariumTime: 1 p.m.Location: National Aviary VisitPITTSBURGH Hospitality Workforce Celebration DayTime: 3:00 p.m.Location: Allegheny Overlook | 24/8/2021 09:04:07 |
| City Partners with Cordico and JCC to Develop Health and Wellness App for Public Safety Personnel | PITTSBURGH, PA (August 24, 2021) Today, the City of Pittsburgh announced a partnership with Cordico, Inc. and the Jewish Community Center of Greater Pittsburgh (JCC) to develop an app to promote mental health and wellness for employees of the Pittsburgh Bureaus of Police, Fire, and EMS and their families.The JCC, through the 10.27 Healing Partnership, will use funding from a grant the organization received from the United States Department of Justice’s Antiterrorism and Emergency Assistance Program to pay for a one-year subscription of a wellness app to be developed by Cordico, Inc. for public safety personnel, first responders, and their families. This initiative aligns with a key goal of Mayor William Peduto’s Community Task Force on Police Reform, which recommended enhancing officer wellness to “support them in healthy living for their own sake, for the sake of their families, and for the sake of their community.”Legislation authorizing the partnership was introduced to City Council today. | 24/8/2021 10:52:52 |
| Police to Launch Cold Case Project with Grant from Department of Justice | PITTSBURGH, PA (August 25, 2021) Legislation was introduced to City Council yesterday to accept $50,440 from the United States Department of Justice Byrne Justice Assistant Grant Program for the Pittsburgh Bureau of Police Homicide Unit to begin a multi-year Cold Case Project.  The funding will be used to utilize the skills and knowledge of retired homicide detectives by hiring them as consultants. The grant will also allow Police to invest in state of the art equipment and supplies to allow detectives and consultants to sort through and continue investigating cold homicide cases. This investment will enhance the capabilities of the Pittsburgh Bureau of Police by providing the expertise and technology to ensure the solving of cold cases. | 25/8/2021 14:04:45 |
| City Receives Over $113,000 to Invest in Electric Bikes for Police Bicycle Unit | PITTSBURGH, PA (August 25, 2021) The City of Pittsburgh has received a $113,702 grant from the United States Department of Justice Byrne Justice Assistance Grant Program for the Pittsburgh Bureau of Police Bicycle Unit.  The Police Bicycle Unit will use the funding to purchase electric bikes for police officers to assist with the rigorous demands of bicycle patrols and the city's topography. The Bicycle Unit is part of the bureau’s overall community policing strategy as bicycle officers have enhanced mobility within densely populated districts, high visibility and accessibility to the public.  Legislation to accept the grant funding was submitted to City Council yesterday. | 25/8/2021 12:05:50 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Wednesday, August 25, 2021 | Groundbreaking for the Thomas and McPherson Stormwater ProjectTime: 1 p.m.Location: Thomas Blvd and N Linden Ave | 25/8/2021 10:32:02 |
| City Hiring for Jobs Restored by American Rescue Plan Funding | PITTSBURGH, PA (August 18, 2021) Mayor William Peduto announced today that City of Pittsburgh jobs that have been restored due to federal funding from the American Rescue Plan Act (ARPA) have started to be posted on the city’s employment website.  In May of 2020, the City implemented a hiring freeze on vacant positions in order to save money to avoid staff layoffs. This past June, Mayor Peduto announced that his five-year spending plan for the $335 million in federal relief funding from ARPA included at total of $22 million to restore critical positions that had been cut from the city budget.  “Thanks to the ARPA funding, we are able to restore over 100 jobs for Pittsburghers,” said Mayor Peduto. “All services that city government provides are essential for the safety and wellbeing of the people of Pittsburgh and throughout the pandemic, our staff have been doing more work with less people.”  Restored positions include important roles such as recreation leaders, city planners, crossing guards and code and construction code inspectors. Additional positions include (but are not limited to): Department of Public Works - Bricklayers - Carpentry Foreman- Electrician  - Facilities Associate Project Managers and Project Managers  - Heavy Equipment Repair Specialists- HVAC Technician - Laborers - Plumber  - Truck Drivers and a Special Operator Department of Mobility &amp; Infrastructure - Laborers  - Project Engineer - Staff Engineers  Open positions will be posted on the City's jobs website. Some positions are currently posted and others will be over the coming weeks and interested individuals can apply online. | 26/8/2021 12:12:31 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Thursday, August 26, 2021 | Speaking at Arctaris Pittsburgh Opportunity Zone Program Launch EventTime: 6:30 p.m.Location: Roundhouse at Hazelwood Green | 26/8/2021 09:45:41 |
| City to Join Three Rivers Business Alliance for First Diversity Supplier Orientation for LGBTQIA+-Owned Businesses | PITTSBURGH, PA (August 26, 2021) Representatives from the City of Pittsburgh will be joining the Three Rivers Business Alliance (3RBA) today to host the first Diversity Supplier Orientation for Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, Queer, Intersex and Asexual Business Enterprises (LGBTBE) in partnership with the Urban Redevelopment Authority of Pittsburgh (URA), Giant Eagle and the Small Business Administration (SBA).  The hybrid in-person and virtual orientation program will be held today, August 26, at 4:00 p.m. and feature procurement and business development representatives from the City, URA, SBA and Giant Eagle. A city code change passed earlier this year now includes LGBTBEs among those recognized by the City’s Equal Opportunity Review Commission as diverse businesses. City code also recognizes Minority-Owned Business Enterprise (MBE), Women-Owned Business Enterprise (WBE) and Veteran-Owned Small Businesses (VOSB).  “Thanks to the work of our Equal Opportunity Review Commission and Office of Equity to remove barriers and improve procurement processes, the City has increased the number of contracts awarded to MWBEs and invested over $32 million in the growth of these small businesses in 2020,” said Mayor William Peduto. “I am proud to support the addition of LGBTBEs to those recognized to contribute further towards to growth of our business sector. Pittsburgh’s economy only grows stronger when we uplift diverse businesses.”  All diverse businesses have access to procurement trainings as well as business development and support opportunities as the City of Pittsburgh is invested in creating a healthy, diverse, inclusive and thriving business environment for all.  “By continuing our partnership with the Three Rivers Business Alliance and the National LGBT Chamber of Commerce, we hope to ensure that the greatest number of eligible business owners can qualify for recognition as LGBTQIA+ owned, and that other Disadvantaged Business Enterprises (DBE) have access to resources to help them grow and maintain their presence in Pittsburgh,” said City Councilperson Erika Strassburger. “This is a great opportunity for potential and current business owners to learn the assistance and opportunities that are available to them.” “I am delighted to see progress on this much-needed recognition of LGBTBEs to help support a more diverse business community,” said City Councilman Bruce Kraus. "In Pittsburgh, our pride as a city is based in unity. This legislation brings us closer to creating a City that is welcoming for all, with a more unified vision for the future that we want to build.” 3RBA will be hosting a press conference at 4 p.m. prior to beginning the orientation. Registration is required and can be done online here. | 26/8/2021 11:32:05 |
| DPW Forestry and Shade Tree Commission Introduce Citywide Significant Tree Registry | PITTSBURGH, PA (August 26, 2021) The Department of Public Works and the Shade Tree Commission have proposed launching a Significant Tree Registry in the City of Pittsburgh in partnership with Tree Pittsburgh in order to formally recognize significant trees on public or private property and encourage the proper maintenance, care and protection of them.  Tree Pittsburgh will be responsible for developing, promoting and managing the registry. Residents will be able to nominate significant trees based on several traits such as: - Size  - Species   - Age  - Historic significance   - Ecological value  - Visibility  - Health  - Space  - Exceptionality  - Collection   - Grove The program will include community outreach, markers for trees and an online interactive map to inform the public about significant trees, local tree resources and the environmental benefits of trees in general.  The partnership with Tree Pittsburgh for the registry was presented to City Council this week. If confirmed, the registry should be expected to launch in the winter. Additional information about City tree initiatives are available from the Forestry Division and the Shade Tree Commission. More information about Tree Pittsburgh programming can be found here. | 26/8/2021 10:37:06 |
| Milling and Paving Resume Monday | PITTSBURGH, PA (August 20, 2021) The City of Pittsburgh Department of Mobility and Infrastructure (DOMI) is continuing its 2021 milling and paving program next week.    Streets being milled include:    Webster Ave, Crawford St, A St, Colfax St, Marvista St, Juniata St, Manhattan St, Perrysville Ave, Ivory Ave, Highwood St, and Eckert St. Streets being paved include:    Bentley Dr, Monaca Way, Bedford Ave, Webster Ave, Crawford St, A St, Colfax St, Marvista St, Virgin Way, Tarpon Way, Deer Way, Manhattan St, Perrysville Ave, Mulberry Way, Lisbon St (Balboa St), Hagy Pl, Kearns Ave, W Sycamore St, and Farmington St.The full paving schedule for the week, including further details on streets and intersections, is available here.    This year the City is investing nearly $16 million in the street resurfacing program, which supports asphalt street resurfacing, ADA curb ramp upgrades on paved streets, and repair of concrete, brick and block stone streets throughout Pittsburgh.  Approximately 34 miles of streets will be resurfaced this year. Additional mileage will be resurfaced through cooperation agreements with local public utilities. Mechanical patching will improve many miles more by addressing particular trouble spots on otherwise acceptable street corridors.       While many residents are continuing to work from home, the City will be continuing extra efforts to notify residents to move their vehicles to enable street resurfacing to proceed. Streets scheduled for resurfacing will be posted weekly on DOMI’s website and will be publicized through city social media channels. | 27/8/2021 09:50:29 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Friday, August 27, 2021 | No public events scheduled. | 27/8/2021 09:08:58 |
| Shady Avenue Traffic Calming Speed Hump Installation | PITTSBURGH, PA (August 27, 2021) The Department of Mobility and Infrastructure is pleased to announce the next phase of traffic calming measures on Shady Avenue from Pittock Street to Nicholson Street, near Taylor Allderdice High School. Data collected in 2020 indicated that 75% of vehicles traveling on Shady Avenue in this area exceed the posted speed limit of 25 mph, with an 85th percentile speed of 33 mph. The rate of speeding, especially on a school corridor where many students walk, indicated a strong need for a traffic calming intervention.This portion of the project will include the construction of one speed hump on Shady Avenue. Permanent signage and pavement markings will be installed to alert motorists of approaching speed humps. Speed humps are midblock traffic calming devices that raise the entire wheelbase of a vehicle to reduce its speed.Work is tentatively expected to take place on Saturday August 28, 2021, and is expected to last one day, weather permitting. Hours of construction will be 7:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. One lane of traffic on Shady Avenue will be closed to traffic, with flaggers stationed at each intersection in order to allow local traffic access to and from their residences. Temporary no parking signage will be posted at each speed hump location.Thank you for your cooperation during this time and we hope there will be only minor inconveniences. If you have questions about this project or other traffic calming projects, you may contact us by email at trafficcalming@pittsburghpa.gov, contacting the City Response Center at 311 or 412-255-2621. You can learn more about DOMI’s Neighborhood Traffic Calming Program at www.pittsburghpa.gov/domi/traffic-calming. | 27/8/2021 09:12:23 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Monday, August 30, 2021 | ICLEI USA Board MeetingTime: 1 p.m. | 30/8/2021 08:56:54 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Tuesday, August 31, 2021 | No public events scheduled. | 31/8/2021 09:06:50 |
| City of Pittsburgh Prepares for Excessive Rain Today and Wednesday | PITTSBURGH, PA  (August 31, 2021) The City of Pittsburgh is preparing for storm conditions as Ida travels up into the northeast corridor. The current forecast calls for excessive rain and possible flash flooding today and Wednesday.    The City is taking the following steps to prepare for the inclement weather:  - The Pittsburgh Water and Sewer Authority (PWSA) and Department of Public Works (DPW) are cleaning out catch basins and storm drains.    - Swift Water Flood Response teams comprised of Pittsburgh Fire, EMS, and Police will be staffed from midnight tonight and begin staging in areas of the City that are most susceptible to flooding. The Zodiac-type vessels are equipped with life-saving equipment and teams of four to eight specially trained personnel.  - DPW Street and Forestry crews are preparing to address downed trees and other debris that may block streets.   - Department of Permits, Licenses and Inspections (PLI) electrical inspectors will be on-call to address any large-scale power outages.    During weather events, the City of Pittsburgh encourages everyone to exercise caution: leave your home only if needed, avoid all creeks and waterways and areas prone to flooding, do not drive through standing water, never drive around flood barriers or posted closures and abide by all detours.   “According to the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Association (NOAA), in our region, 2.56 inches of rain needs to fall in one hour or 4.89 inches in a 24-hour period to be a 100-year storm,” said Mayor William Peduto. “For a 50-year storm, 2.3 inches must accumulate in one hour or 4.38 inches over 24 hours. We are preparing the City resources to address what comes our way and encourage our residents to use caution and take appropriate steps to stay safe.” | 31/8/2021 13:18:40 |
| Mayor Peduto Signs Executive Order Related to Fentanyl Test Strips for Overdose Prevention on Overdose Awareness Day | PITTSBURGH, PA (August 31, 2021) Mayor William Peduto issued an Executive Order today calling to allow the possession and use of fentanyl test strips, a key opioid overdose prevention tool, in the City of Pittsburgh. The Order also directs the City of Pittsburgh Office of Community Health and Safety (OCH&amp;S) to work with city employees and the public to educate them on the benefits of these lifesaving tools and to reduce the stigma associated with possessing them.  Fentanyl test strips have been proven to prevent opioid overdoses and save lives as they allow users to identify the presence of fentanyl in unregulated drugs including injectable drugs, powders and pills. Awareness of fentanyl allows individuals to use appropriate harm reduction strategies to reduce the risk of an overdose.  Fentanyl is an extremely potent opioid that can quickly stop breathing and cause an opioid overdose, which can lead to death. Opioid use disorder is a leading cause of preventable death in the United States and the regional rate of overdose deaths has accelerated faster than national averages, with countywide overdose deaths increasing 22% from 2019 to 2020, with fentanyl present in 77% of those deaths.  According to a recent public service announcement from OCH&amp;S, there have been reports of increased presence of fentanyl in “heroin, cocaine, crack, methamphetamine, benzodiazepines, ecstasy and counterfeit pills such as Percocet and Xanax [in the Greater Pittsburgh area]. While fentanyl has been present in the heroin supply for several years in this region, there are increasing reports of other, non-opioid drugs that have been cut with or contaminated by fentanyl.”  With this executive order, the City of Pittsburgh joins the Pennsylvania Attorney General and Allegheny County District Attorney in adopting a policy to not arrest individuals who possess or distribute fentanyl test strips for harm reduction purposes.  The pandemic has exacerbated mental health conditions, economic stressors and caused individuals to use drugs alone in larger amounts with increased frequency, which are common risk factors for unsafe opioid use. The presence of fentanyl also contributes to deepening racial inequity, with Black men experiencing a 200% increase in overdose deaths from 2019-2020 over the same time period in 2018-2019. “Fentanyl test strips have been identified by the Centers for Disease Control and other expert organizations as a critical tool in preventing opioid-related overdoses and deaths,” said Mayor Peduto. “Other policies have stigmatized drug use, but yet we are still seeing the number of opioid overdoses climbing. I have signed this executive order on International Overdose Awareness Day because if we have the tools to help prevent overdose deaths, it is our responsibility to help healthcare providers, outreach organizations and municipal government get them to our communities.”  A full copy of the executive order is available here. | 31/8/2021 11:41:20 |
| Brule Street Overnight Closures | PITTSBURGH, PA (August 31, 2021) The City of Pittsburgh’s Department of Mobility and Infrastructure (DOMI) is announcing the overnight closure of Brule Street in the Perry South neighborhood. Beginning Tuesday September 7th, 8th, 9th, 10th, and September 13th and 14th, this road will be closed to all traffic from 11 p.m. to 5 a.m. each day.Contractors will be performing drilling operations as part of the first phase of the process designed to stabilize pavement settling on Brule Street.Thank you for your cooperation during this time and we hope there will be only minor inconveniences. If you have any questions or require further information regarding this closure you may contact the City’s Response Center by calling 311 or 412-255-2621.If you are interested in further information regarding this project and others, please follow this link to our fact sheets: https://pittsburghpa.gov/domi/current-projects/. | 31/8/2021 15:26:12 |
| City Offices Closed, Refuse Collection Suspended Monday, September 6 in Observance of Labor Day | PITTSBURGH, PA  (September 1, 2021) City of Pittsburgh offices will be closed and refuse collection will be suspended on Monday, September 6 in observance of Labor Day.  There will be no refuse, bulk waste or recycling collection on Monday and collection will be pushed back one day for the rest of the week. If your scheduled collection day is Monday, you will be serviced on Tuesday, September 7; those usually serviced Tuesday will be serviced Wednesday; and so on through the week with those usually serviced Friday having their collection on Saturday, September 11.  Grab’n’Go meals for seniors will also be closed on Monday, but will accommodate seniors with extra meals on Friday, September 3. The regular schedule will resume on Wednesday, September 8.  The following is the Labor Day schedule for Citiparks Facilities:  HEALTHY ACTIVE LIVING CENTERS (Senior Centers)CLOSED on Monday, September 6, 2021 RECREATION CENTERSCLOSED on Monday, September 6, 2021 MELLON PARK TENNIS CENTERCLOSED on Monday, September 6, 2021 SPRAY PARKSOPEN OUTDOOR POOLSOPEN*Reminder: Monday, September 6th is the last day for the 2021 Outdoor Pool Season. SCHENLEY PARK SKATING RINKClosed for the Season OLIVER BATH HOUSERemains closed. | 1/9/2021 10:33:20 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Wednesday, September 1, 2021 | FNB Financial Center Groundbreaking CeremonyTime: 11:00 a.m.Location: PPG Paints Arena North Surface Lot50th Anniversary of the Pirates All-Minority Lineup CelebrationTime: 7:45 p.m. | 1/9/2021 09:16:26 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Thursday, September 2, 2021 | No public events scheduled. | 2/9/2021 09:52:46 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Schedule - Friday, September 3, 2021 | Blood Drive with Labor CouncilTime: 1 p.m.Location: FNB Gate at PPG Paints Arena | 3/9/2021 09:08:51 |
| DOMI Announces Saw and Seal Street Work for Next Week | PITTSBURGH, PA (September 3, 2021) The Department of Mobility and Infrastructure has announced streets that will undergo asphalt overlay next week. The procedure, called “Saw and Seal”, helps preserve concrete joints and can increase to longevity of asphalt pavement.
The following streets will be sawed and sealed between September 7 – 10, 2021:
|     |     |     |
| --- | --- | --- |
| STREET NAME | FROM STREET | TO STREET |
| Coleridge PL | Coleridge St | Dead End |
| Coleridge St | Brintell St | Woodbine St |
| Oranmore St | Brintell St | to Dead End |
| Schenley Manor Dr | Oranmore St | Azure St |
| Daleland Ave | Dead End | Avacoll Dr |
| Saranac | Palm beach Ave | W Liberty Ave |
| Altamont Way | Arcadia Way | Bernd St |
| Southside Trail | At 4th St |  |
While many residents are continuing to work from home, the City will be continuing extra efforts to notify residents to move their vehicles to enable street saw and seal to proceed. | 3/9/2021 15:53:52 |
| Carnegie Mellon University Partners with City to Fund Four Mile Run Playground and Lewis Playground Improvements | PITTSBURGH, PA (September 3, 2021) – Carnegie Mellon University and the City of Pittsburgh have partnered to provide support for the rehabilitation of Four Mile Run playground in Greenfield and improvements at Lewis playground in Hazelwood, as part of the OnePGH community investment plan announced earlier this year by Mayor William Peduto. Both playgrounds are located in highly-used areas near the Carnegie Mellon University campus and in need of improvements. CMU has stepped up to provide the funds to build a brand-new recreation area and enhance an existing playground for these two communities. “Carnegie Mellon University is committed to enhancing quality of life for our community members and neighbors in Pittsburgh and Southwestern Pennsylvania,” said CMU President Farnam Jahanian. “This partnership to improve two beloved playgrounds close to our campus is both an expression of this university-wide commitment and an investment in Pittsburgh as a vibrant and family-friendly region. I look forward to seeing Four Mile Run Playground and Lewis Playground bring joy to children and families in Greenfield and Hazelwood for years to come.” “I want to thank Carnegie Mellon for this investment, which is precisely the kind of partnership we envisioned with OnePGH — something that will benefit the city, the university and the community at large,” Mayor Peduto said. While the new Four Mile Run playground is planned and fabricated, the Department of Public Works (DPW) will make short-term repairs to keep it safe and usable for children. DPW will then lead a community engagement process on the new design of the playground, including on the EngagePGH website. "I want to thank Carnegie Mellon for stepping up to invest in the Greenfield and Hazelwood communities, and especially, the children of the neighborhoods. I also want to thank the Mayor's Office for developing partnerships such as these to create resources,” said City Councilman Corey O’Connor. "These will be safe spaces for families and young people to have fun, learn, and build community for years to come." In late April Mayor Peduto released the OnePGH prospectus and website, which identifies areas of focus for participating institutions, including affordable housing, the Office of Community Health and Safety, community engagement centers, workforce development, Rec2Tech, green infrastructure and parks. After the playground rehabilitations and improvements have been designed with DPW and the community, Carnegie Mellon will provide funding to the City, as approved by City Council to fund these playground enhancements. | 3/9/2021 11:57:23 |
| Milling and Paving Resume Tuesday | PITTSBURGH, PA (September 3, 2021) The City of Pittsburgh Department of Mobility and Infrastructure (DOMI) is continuing its 2021 milling and paving program next Tuesday, September 7, following the observance of Labor Day. Streets being milled include:    Juniata St, Sheffield St, Manhattan St, Perrysville Ave, Viola St, Schenley Dr, Overlook Dr and Louisiana Ave. Streets being paved include:    Bentley Dr, Mulberry Way, Farmington St, Perrysville Ave, Viola St, Tarpon Way, Virgin Way, Lingrove Pl, Hagy Pl, Obey Ave, Jumonville St, Tustin St, Deer Way, Highwood St and Eckert St. The full paving schedule for the week, including further details on streets and intersections, is available here.    This year the City is investing nearly $16 million in the street resurfacing program, which supports asphalt street resurfacing, ADA curb ramp upgrades on paved streets, and repair of concrete, brick and block stone streets throughout Pittsburgh.  Approximately 34 miles of streets will be resurfaced this year. Additional mileage will be resurfaced through cooperation agreements with local public utilities. Mechanical patching will improve many miles more by addressing particular trouble spots on otherwise acceptable street corridors.       While many residents are continuing to work from home, the City will be continuing extra efforts to notify residents to move their vehicles to enable street resurfacing to proceed. Streets scheduled for resurfacing will be posted weekly on DOMI’s website and will be publicized through city social media channels. | 3/9/2021 09:57:43 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Tuesday, September 7, 2021 | No public events scheduled. | 7/9/2021 09:14:39 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Wednesday, September 8, 2021 | No public events scheduled. | 8/9/2021 09:07:57 |
| City Council to Consider Mayor Peduto's Groundbreaking Assured Cash Experiment (Ace) PGH Initiative to Address Poverty and Inequity | PITTSBURGH, PA (September 8, 2021) City Council will consider Mayor William Peduto's plans for the Assured Cash Experiment PGH (AcePGH), a guaranteed basic income pilot to combat poverty and inequity that will provide an unrestricted $500 monthly cash transfer to 200 people in the City of Pittsburgh. One hundred of the participants will be Black women in response to inequities that Black women face in Pittsburgh, as clearly defined in the 2019 Gender Equity Commission report Pittsburgh’s Inequality Across Gender and Race.
According to the report, Black women and children are more likely to live in poverty in Pittsburgh than comparable cities. Pittsburgh’s Black women are five times as likely as white men to live in poverty and twice as likely than white women. In response to this, the Office of Mayor Peduto has designed a guaranteed basic income policy to address the poverty inequitably faced by Black women in our communities at the recommendation of the Gender Equity Commission report.
Guaranteed basic income was championed by Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King who said that poverty could be eradicated by providing every American a direct, guaranteed middle-class income. He argued that that other programs to address poverty were less effective in that they seek to address one root cause at a time, writing “the programs of the past all have another common failing – they are indirect. Each seeks to solve poverty by first solving something else.”
Last summer, Mayor Peduto joined Mayors for a Guaranteed Income (MGI), a forward-thinking network of mayors from around the country started by Mayor Michael Tubbs of Stockton, California. Following Dr. King’s philosophy, they advocate providing direct, unrestricted recurring cash payments to residents to give them a boost and an income floor that lifts up families who have been struggling long before the pandemic.
The City of Pittsburgh will join cities nationwide in utilizing relief funds from the American Rescue Plan to fund part of the program through OnePGH, a nonprofit organization that is supported by public and private investment to allow for the collaboration of local government, business, philanthropy and nonprofits to improve the lives of all Pittsburghers. The program will also be funded through grants from Twitter CEO Jack Dorsey and MGI.
This table outlines how some other cities are defining and funding their pilot programs:
|     |     |     |     |     |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| City | ARPA Funds? | Implementing partner | Pilot details | Comments / Source link |
| Minneapolis, MN | Yes - $3,000,000 | TBD external partner | 200 participants, $500/mo, 24 months, &lt;50% city median income, priority to housing insecurity | “The Program Administrator would be an external partner. The Referral Partners could be a combination of internal and external partners providing housing stability and job training/placement services.” https://content.govdelivery.com/attachments/MPLS/2021/06/11/file_attachments/1851540/ARPAMayorProposal_06.2021.pdfhttps://www.minneapolismn.gov/news/2021/july/council-adopts-spending-plan-for-federal-funds/https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2021-07-12/minneapolis-basic-income-test-taps-covid-funds |
| Alexandria, VA | Yes – $3,000,000 | ACT for Alexandria | 150 participants, $500/mo, 24 months, Low-income/ALICE | https://www.actforalexandria.org/initiatives/t/guaranteed-basic-income-pilot-program/# |
| Long Beach, CA | Yes - $2,000,000 | TBD non-profit administrator | 500 participants, $500/mo, 12 months, Single-parent HH below poverty line in 90813 zip code | “3rd Party Administrator: All guaranteed income programs studied by the Working Group were administered by a 3rd party nonprofit administrator responsible for participant support, payment processing, reporting, and other activities.” https://www.longbeach.gov/globalassets/city-manager/media-library/documents/memos-to-the-mayor-tabbed-file-list-folders/2021/tff---guaranteed-income-update_finalAlso providing free childcare, transportation support, and workforce training https://losangeles.cbslocal.com/2021/07/08/long-beach-to-give-out-500-per-month-in-guaranteed-income-to-500-low-income-residents/https://www.longbeach.gov/mayor/news/guaranteed-income2/ |
| Evanston, IL | Yes - $700,000 | Northwestern Good Neighbor Racial Equity Fund | 165 participants, $500/mo, 12 months, Disengaged youths (18-24), senior citizens &amp; undocumented residents | https://evanstonroundtable.com/2021/08/12/council-moves-forward-on-guaranteed-income-program-with-500-monthly-payments-to-select-residents/ |
| Austin, TX | No –  $1,138,000 City (funding source: revised sales tax projections) &amp; $1,138,000 Private | UpTogether (formerly FII) | Current: 125 participants, $1,000/mo, 12 months Expanded: TBD -&gt; likely 100 participants, $1,000/mo, 12 months, most vulnerable residents | There is a privately-funded pilot currently being run by UpTogether. On 8/11/21, Austin City Council approved additional city funding to expand that pilot, program details TBD. https://www.austinmonitor.com/stories/2021/08/council-funds-pilot-program-to-create-guaranteed-income/http://assets.austintexas.gov/austincouncilforum/26-20210806164834.pdfhttps://www.austinmonitor.com/stories/2021/08/questions-linger-on-both-sides-of-1-1m-guaranteed-income-pilot-program/ |
| Richmond, VA Richmond Resilience Initiative | CARES Act ($240,000) &amp; philanthropic | Family Independence Initiative (UpTogether) | 18 participants, $500/mo, 24 months Low-income \* extending to 37 more families | https://www.rva.gov/human-services-press-releases-and-announcements-mayors-office/news/stoney-administration-launchhttps://richmond.com/news/local/richmond-adds-37-more-participants-for-guaranteed-income-pilot/article_05db3205-e469-5219-bb1e-3c5bc9b92318.html |
| Cook County, IL | CARES Act | Family Independence Initiative (UpTogether) | $600 one-time payments to 10,000 residents | One-time payment https://www.cookcountyil.gov/sites/default/files/faqs-final_resident_cash_assistance_program.pdf |
| Santa Fe, NM | TBD | Santa Fe Community College Foundation | 100 participants, $400/mo, 12 months Santa Fe Community College students who are parents, have financial stress | https://www.bizjournals.com/albuquerque/news/2021/06/17/santa-fe-mayor-joins-mayors-for-guaranteed-incom.html |
| Durham, NC | No – but does use City funding | StepUp Durham | 115 participants, $500/mo, 12 months, Formerly incarcerated individuals | https://durhamnc.gov/CivicAlerts.aspx?AID=2908 |
| Stockton, CA – SEED | No | Economic Security Project | $500/month, 24 months | https://static1.squarespace.com/static/6039d612b17d055cac14070f/t/605029ab52a6b53e3dd38cf8/1615866284641/10+-+SEED+Discussion+Paper.pdf |
| Tacoma, WA GRIT Demonstration | No | United Way Pierce County | 110 participants, $500/mo, 12 months, Low-income/ALICE | https://www.uwpc.org/guaranteed-income-initiative-growing-resilience-tacoma-grit |
| Denver, CO Denver Basic Income Project | No | Impact Charitable, hosting Denver Basic Income Fund | 260 receive $6,500 up front+$500/mo for 11 months; 260 receive $1,000/mo for 12 months Homeless individuals | https://denverfoundation.org/2021/07/community-led-solutions-the-denver-basic-income-project/https://denverbasicincomeproject.org/participant-criteria |
| Compton, CA Compton Pledge | No | Fund 4 Guaranteed Income; Jain Family Institute | 800 families, $300-600/mo, 2 years Low-income | https://comptonpledge.org/wp-content/uploads/2020/12/Compton-Pledge-Factsheet_Final_3.pdfhttps://comptonpledge.org/wp-content/uploads/2021/04/April-13-Press-Release.pdf |
| Cambridge, MA Cambridge RISE (Recurring Income for Success and Empowerment) | No | Cambridge Community Foundation | 130 participants, $500/mo, 18 months Single caretaker households &lt;80% AMI | https://www.cambridgeday.com/2021/04/15/cambridge-will-test-guaranteed-income-payments-with-120-city-households-led-by-single-caretakers/https://www.nlc.org/article/2021/08/23/how-cambridge-is-addressing-income-inequity-through-guaranteed-income/ |
| San Diego, CA Resilient Communities for Every Child | No | San Diego for Every Child | 150 families, $500/mo, 24 months, target ZIP codes with high rates of child poverty | https://www.10news.com/news/local-news/san-diego-nonprofit-to-launch-regions-first-guaranteed-income-projecthttps://www.sandiegoforeverychild.org/guaranteed-income/ |
| Columbia, SC Columbia Life Improvement Monetary Boost (CLIMB) | No | Central Carolina Community Foundation | 100 participants, $500/mo, 12 months Fathers involved in Midlands Fatherhood Coalition | https://columbiaclimb.com/https://www.wltx.com/article/news/local/climb-program-mayors-for-guaranteed-income/101-815adc47-4da8-4432-be85-8603a8a7e93f |
| Oakland, CA | No | UpTogether (previously Family Independence Initiative) | 300 participants east Oakland (+300 citywide phase 2), $500/mo, 18 months Income &lt;50% AMI, at least one child, prioritize BIPOC | https://oaklandresilientfamilies.org/designhttps://www.oaklandca.gov/news/2021/oakland-guaranteed-income-pilot-now-accepting-east-oakland-applications#:~:text=The%20pilot%2C%20a%20collaboration%20between,of%20300%20in%20East%20Oakland. |
| Madison, WI | No | Give Back Foundation; TASC | TBD: likely 125 participants, $500/mo, 12 months, families w/children but “relatively broad” | https://www.wpr.org/wisconsin-cities-look-basic-income-close-racial-other-wealth-gapshttps://www.prweb.com/releases/tasc_partnering_with_city_of_madison_for_guaranteed_income_pilot_program/prweb18013143.htm |
| Providence, RI Providence GI Pilot | No | Amos House | 110 participants, $500/mo, 12 months, &lt;200% poverty level | https://www.providenceri.gov/mayor-elorza-launches-providence-guaranteed-income-pilot/ |
AcePGH will be a pilot program that will be measured and studied with the assistance of MGI and the University of Pennsylvania School of Social Policy and Practice’s Center for Guaranteed Income Research. The 200 participants must be 18 of older and will be recruited in two groups:

100 Black women who live in the City of Pittsburgh and earn at or below 50% of the area median income who participate in Pittsburgh Financial Empowerment Centers, an initiative of Mayor Peduto’s Office of Equity

100 City of Pittsburgh residents randomly selected from five disadvantaged zip codes citywide

Participants will receive a monthly payment of $500 on a debit card to spend on what they or their families need for 24 months. Findings from other pilots show participants most frequently use cash to meet their basic needs like food, merchandise/wholesale and utilities. | 8/9/2021 09:17:29 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Thursday, September 9, 2021 | Cultural District's Lights On! Kick-Off to RADical DaysTime: 5:00 p.m.Green Building Alliance Emerald EveningTime: 7:30 p.m. | 9/9/2021 09:24:20 |
| City Launches OneTaxPGH Online Tax Management Platform | PITTSBURGH, PA (September 9, 2021) The City of Pittsburgh Department of Finance has announced OneTaxPGH, a new online business and real estate tax management system that will improve convenience and efficiency for both taxpayers and city staff.   The secure digital platform will replace the current antiquated internal and external real estate billing and business tax collection systems. It will provide an online portal where taxpayers can register a new business, view and pay taxes and submit forms online.  City taxpayers will be able to:  - Create an account to see bills, statements and history.  - Pay taxes online, including with e-check that will automatically post to their account within 24 hours.  - Track the status of their payments and payment history.  - Opt-in for e-delivery and email notifications to minimize the need for paper forms.  - Submit forms and information.   “Throughout my time as mayor, my administration has been committed to modernizing city services to improve ease, transparency and efficiency,” said Mayor William Peduto. “We all hold the world in the palm of our hands – on our phones – and access to paying your taxes should be no different. The people of Pittsburgh deserve OneTaxPGH and I applaud the Finance Department for their hard work in integrating antiquated systems into one centralized online service.”   Each year, the Finance Department staff is responsible for the collection of over $500 million in taxes and processing over 700,000 forms within multiple software systems. Centralizing and digitizing tax submissions into one software system will streamline tax submissions, improve staff’s ability to manage them and allow staff to more easily identify those who have not yet paid taxes in order to collect revenue for critical city investments like playgrounds and street paving.   “OneTaxPGH will allow Pittsburgh taxpayers to interact with the Department of Finance in a more efficient manner, and will streamline the daily work of department staff allowing us to better serve taxpayers,” said Finance Director Doug Anderson. “I’d like to thank and commend the employees of the Department of Finance for their hard work on implementing this new system. A project implementation of this magnitude is not easy, especially under the conditions in which our world has been operating for over a year.”   The new system will be introduced in phases, with the Finance Department staff-only portal having launched September 1. The public online portal for business taxes will launch in October and public online portal for real estate taxes will launch this winter. Taxpayers will be notified how to access the online portal by mail. Taxpayers can take a survey about their payment preferences on the OneTaxPGH public engagement site, where additional information will be available in the coming weeks. | 9/9/2021 09:30:02 |
| Welcoming Pittsburgh Celebrates Welcoming Week September 10-19, 2021 | PITTSBURGH, PA (September 9, 2021) Mayor William Peduto’s Welcoming Pittsburgh initiative is kicking off Welcoming Week 2021 in the City of Pittsburgh tomorrow. Welcoming Week is a national celebration recognized locally that brings together immigrant and U.S.-born neighbors for community-based events to promote pride in the rich cultural fabric of Pittsburgh. Welcoming Pittsburgh and partners will be offering opportunities to learn about the immigrant, refugee and new American communities in Pittsburgh starting tomorrow. Welcoming Pittsburgh will be featuring daily “Welcome, Neighbor” video series on their Facebook, Twitter and Instagram pages. Stories from Pittsburghers that make our communities vibrant will be posted each day at noon from September 10 – 19.    Tomorrow marks the premier of the City Theatre’s The Rivers Don’t Know, a new theatrical play that tells the story of immigrants and refugees in Pittsburgh from the 1940s to the present day. The play will run from September 10 – 19 and each performance will feature an Artisan Marketplace with food, crafts, merchandise, art and food.  Additional Pittsburgh Welcoming Week events include: September 13 – Universal Representation Roundtable5 p.m. Live on Welcoming Pittsburgh’s FacebookLearn how community advocates across Pennsylvania have worked to establish a program for the legal defense of people facing deportation and how Mayor Peduto and Mayor Jim Kenney of Philadelphia have supported the work.  September 16 - Naturalization Ceremony10 a.m.  Join the City of Pittsburgh for a public event to celebrate the naturalization of new American citizens! September 17 - Special Announcement12:00 noon on Welcoming Pittsburgh’s FacebookJoin Mayor Peduto as he makes a special announcement about Pittsburgh’s welcoming work.  Welcoming Pittsburgh is guided by the Welcoming Pittsburgh Roadmap, a comprehensive citywide plan for immigrant, refugee and New American advocacy compiled by 40 leaders from diverse sectors and over 3,000 community members. Welcoming Pittsburgh uses the Roadmap to guide their work that extends throughout the year.  This year, Welcoming Pittsburgh coordinated several community partners into a workforce subcommittee to develop a series of resources for employers and immigrant, refugee and New American workers. The subcommittee produced three documents that include a resource for complex immigration statuses and the US immigration system, a directory of workforce development resources to support career-seekers from the immigrant and international communities and a list of employers that meet criteria to create a welcoming environment for immigrant and international workers. The resources are available here.  Additional initiatives of Welcoming Pittsburgh include developing a language access plan for city departments, a cultural competency training for public safety officials and other work outlined in their 2020 annual report.   | 9/9/2021 15:19:42 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Friday, September 10, 2021 | Meeting With Wabtec12:00 PM * Ribbon Cutting For New Arnold Palmer Learning Center With Department of Public Works &amp; First Tee - Pittsburgh6:00 PMLocation: Arndold Palmer Learning Center at Bob O'Connor Golf Course in CitiParks Schenley Park | 10/9/2021 09:12:30 |
| Milling and Paving Resume Monday | PITTSBURGH, PA (September 10, 2021) The City of Pittsburgh Department of Mobility and Infrastructure (DOMI) is continuing its 2021 milling and paving program next week.    Streets being milled include:    Schenley Dr, Overlook Dr, Kirsopp Ave, Carahan Rd, Louisiana Ave, Bodkin St, Texola, Paul Pl, Batnam Way, Elmbank, Whited St. Streets being paved include:    Highwood St, Colfax St, Marvista St, Tarpon Way, Virgin Way, A St, Juniata St, Lake St, Kearns Ave, Waldeck St, Sylvan Ave, Manhattan St, Sheffield St, Mulberry Way, Farmington St, Overlook Dr, Tustin St, Jumonville St, Schenley Dr, Kirsopp Ave and Carnahan Rd. The full paving schedule for the week, including further details on streets and intersections, is available here.    This year the City is investing nearly $16 million in the street resurfacing program, which supports asphalt street resurfacing, ADA curb ramp upgrades on paved streets, and repair of concrete, brick and block stone streets throughout Pittsburgh.  Approximately 34 miles of streets will be resurfaced this year. Additional mileage will be resurfaced through cooperation agreements with local public utilities. Mechanical patching will improve many miles more by addressing particular trouble spots on otherwise acceptable street corridors.       While many residents are continuing to work from home, the City will be continuing extra efforts to notify residents to move their vehicles to enable street resurfacing to proceed. Streets scheduled for resurfacing will be posted weekly on DOMI’s website and will be publicized through city social media channels. | 10/9/2021 13:38:38 |
| City of Pittsburgh and First Tee Pittsburgh Celebrate Opening of $6.4 Million Arnold Palmer Learning Center at Bob O'Connor Golf Course | PITTSBURGH, PA (September 10, 2021) The City of Pittsburgh and First Tee - Pittsburgh will cut the ribbon later today for the grand opening of the $6.4 million state of the art Arnold Palmer Learning Center at the Bob O’Connor Golf Course in Schenley Park. The new 15,000 square-foot building replaces the old Golf Clubhouse that was well over a century old.   “I want to thank First Tee – Pittsburgh, the Department of Public Works, and Councilman O’Connor for partnering on this important project. This new facility provides the residents of Pittsburgh with a first rate experience at this historic and beloved golf course,” said Mayor William Peduto.   The center brings unprecedented modern amenities to the historic course, including golf  simulators, indoor training classrooms, and accommodations for corporate and community events. Pittsburgh residents, children, and guests will be given new and enhanced opportunities to engage and learn about the game of golf.   “The Arnold Palmer Learning Center is the result of years-long collaboration between countless partners, all of whom worked tirelessly to bring this landmark community and educational amenity to life,” said City Councilman Corey O’Connor. “I’m excited to see this enriching community contribution to our youth and neighbors.”  The facility is also on track for LEED Silver certification and includes stormwater management features to prevent overwhelming the sewer system, which helps Schenley Park as well as the surrounding neighborhoods.  It was designed by R3A Architecture and constructed by Pittsburgh-based Massaro Construction. “As we celebrate our 20th anniversary in Pittsburgh, our mission continues to focus on building game changers out of today’s young men and women by helping them develop life skills and abilities that build character, instill core values, and promote healthy choices,” said Eric Amato, president and CEO, First Tee – Pittsburgh. “The Arnold Palmer Learning Center is the crown jewel of this effort and will help us augment our work with more than 5,000 kids every year.”  The project was a collaborative effort funded by donors to First Tee – Pittsburgh for the building and the City funding site work and the demolition of the former clubhouse. The ribbon cutting will take place at 6 PM at the new center and is open to the public. | 10/9/2021 10:11:41 |
|  | PITTSBURGH, PA (September 10, 2021) The City of Pittsburgh and First Tee - Pittsburgh will cut the ribbon later today for the grand opening of the $6.4 million state of the art Arnold Palmer Learning Center at the Bob O’Connor Golf Course in CitiParks' Schenley Park. The new 15,000 square-foot building replaces the old Golf Clubhouse that was well over a century old.   “I want to thank First Tee – Pittsburgh, the Department of Public Works, and Councilman O’Connor for partnering on this important project. This new facility provides the residents of Pittsburgh with a first rate experience at this historic and beloved golf course,” said Mayor William Peduto.   The center brings unprecedented modern amenities to the historic course, including golf  simulators, indoor training classrooms, and accommodations for corporate and community events. Pittsburgh residents, children, and guests will be given new and enhanced opportunities to engage and learn about the game of golf.   “The Arnold Palmer Learning Center is the result of years-long collaboration between countless partners, all of whom worked tirelessly to bring this landmark community and educational amenity to life,” said City Councilman Corey O’Connor. “I’m excited to see this enriching community contribution to our youth and neighbors.”  The facility is also on track for LEED Silver certification and includes stormwater management features to prevent overwhelming the sewer system, which helps Schenley Park as well as the surrounding neighborhoods.  It was designed by R3A Architecture and constructed by Pittsburgh-based Massaro Construction. “As we celebrate our 20th anniversary in Pittsburgh, our mission continues to focus on building game changers out of today’s young men and women by helping them develop life skills and abilities that build character, instill core values, and promote healthy choices,” said Eric Amato, president and CEO, First Tee – Pittsburgh. “The Arnold Palmer Learning Center is the crown jewel of this effort and will help us augment our work with more than 5,000 kids every year.”  The project was a collaborative effort funded by donors to First Tee – Pittsburgh for the building and the City funding site work and the demolition of the former clubhouse. The ribbon cutting will take place at 6 PM at the new center and is open to the public. | 10/9/2021 10:09:56 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Monday, September 13, 2021 | No public events scheduled. | 13/9/2021 08:57:14 |
| Peduto Administration Proposes Multimodal-Focused Changes for Restaurants and Drive-Through Uses | PITTSBURGH, PA (September 13, 2021) Mayor William Peduto’s administration is forwarding legislation to the Planning Commission to promote walkable and safe neighborhoods for all by reducing the impact of vehicle-oriented uses for restaurants, with new standards for drive-throughs and updated parking requirements.   The proposed ordinance amends the Zoning Code to create standards that allow the City to assess and reduce negative impacts of drive-through uses in certain zoning districts, including neighborhood business districts and others. New drive-through businesses proposed in the areas identified in the ordinance will require approval from the Zoning Board of Adjustment.  In addition to ZBA approval, the legislation would also require any individual or company proposing a drive-through business to submit a Transportation Impact Study to the City’s Department of Mobility and Infrastructure (DOMI). In an effort to improve safety for pedestrians, cyclists, individuals using wheelchairs, and motorists, DOMI staff will review each study and require the applicant to make necessary changes to mitigate any detrimental impacts of vehicle-oriented businesses on the surrounding community.   The legislation also reduces minimum parking requirements and implements maximum parking requirements for restaurants and fast food restaurants as follows: - For fast food restaurants, the legislation would require 1 off-street parking space for every 500 square feet of space. Currently, the Zoning Code requires 1 off-street parking space for every 75 square feet of space. The proposed bill would implement a maximum parking requirement of 1 off-street space for every 175 square feet of space. There is currently no maximum parking requirement for this use.   - For all other restaurants, the legislation would require 1 off-street parking space for every 500 square feet. Currently, the Zoning Code requires 1 off-street parking space for every 125 square feet of space. The proposed bill would increase the maximum parking requirement from 1 off-street parking space for every 75 square feet to 1 off-street parking space for every 175 square feet of space.   In addition to improving safety for users of surrounding streets, reducing minimum parking requirements and implementing maximum parking requirements simplifies the zoning process for restaurant owners and decreases costs associated with opening a business.   “In Pittsburgh, over 20% of our residents do not own a vehicle, and a growing number of our neighbors choose to commute via a method other than driving alone,” said Mayor Peduto. “This commonsense and much-needed legislation modernizes our Zoning Code, updates antiquated parking requirements, and advances my administration’s efforts to build safer streets for all users. I applaud the Department of City Planning for their work on this bill.”  The legislation will be presented to the City Planning Commission on Tuesday, September 14. The Commission will then take action on the proposal during their meeting on Tuesday, September 28 before forwarding their recommendation for consideration by City Council. | 13/9/2021 15:27:07 |
| City's Fifth Annual Garbage Olympics Recruiting Volunteers from Over Half of Pittsburgh's Neighborhoods | PITTSBURGH, PA (September 13, 2021) The City of Pittsburgh Department of Public Works (DPW) is inviting Pittsburghers to go for GOLD with neighbors in the fifth annual citywide Garbage Olympics on September 18. The annual competitive litter pick up event has attracted more than 40 Pittsburgh neighborhood teams, as well as teams from two neighboring municipalities, to compete in picking up garbage and litter from city streets.  The event goes from 9-11 a.m. and DPW and Mayor Peduto’s Clean Pittsburgh Commission will provide bags, gloves, safety vests, and "nifty nabber" litter grabbers. DPW will again collect the trash from designated locations in each neighborhood, and the City’s hard-to-recycle vendor, ECS&amp;R, will drive around to pick up and recycle the televisions found during clean-ups. Interested residents can find registered neighborhood teams, captain contact information and meeting spots on PGHGO.org. Interested participants can also email garbageolympicspgh@gmail.com or text or call 412-709-5155 to join a team.  “Each act of cleaning up litter isn't just one action. It accomplished dozens of things, every single time,” said the city’s Anti-Litter Specialist Chris Mitchell. “It raises pride in your community. It makes your community safer. It makes your community stronger. It makes the land and water around you less poisonous. It discourages further littering by keeping it clean in the first place.” The Garbage Olympics began in 2017 with five teams competing for an Oscar award for the most trash collected. The event has grown exponentially since starting, with 38 of Pittsburgh’s 90 neighborhoods participating in 2020. “The Garbage Olympics allows anyone to make an impact in their neighborhood. You can have a team of two or 50… you know that you’re a part of a bigger goal with all Pittsburgh neighborhoods doing a trash collection together," Renee Robinson Garbage Olympics co-founder and organizer.  Winners will be announced at a closing ceremony at Threadbare Cider House in Spring Garden beginning at 12pm. Garbage Olympics Contacts:  Chris Mitchell, Anti Litter Specialist for the City of Pittsburgh - (412) 302-3460 Lena Andrews, event organizer - (412) 607-1957 Renee Robinson, event organizer - (412) 999-8928 | 13/9/2021 10:12:24 |
| DOMI to Host Public Meeting on Strip District Liberty Avenue Safety Improvement Project Next Week | PITTSBURGH, PA (September 14, 2021) The Department of Mobility and Infrastructure (DOMI) will be hosting a virtual public meeting next Tuesday, September 21 at 6:00 p.m. to collect feedback on the proposed changes to travel lanes, intersections, traffic operations and transit stops as part of the Liberty Avenue Safety Improvement Project in the Strip District.  The purpose of the Liberty Avenue Safety Improvement Project is to improve safety for people walking, biking, driving and taking public transit along Liberty Avenue in the Strip District between 11th Street and Herron Avenue. The project is still in the beginning stages of design, so DOMI will present the proposed design, which incorporates priorities identified in the community-led Strip District Plan as well as the City’s Pedestrian Safety Action Plan and Bike(+) Plan, at next week’s meeting.   Meeting attendees will have the opportunity to provide feedback on the preliminary design, which includes:  - A vehicle travel lane reduction to improve motorist safety along the corridor.  - Traffic signal upgrade such as upgraded controllers, potential new signals, new pedestrian pushbuttons, upgraded ADA accommodations, upgraded crosswalks and count-down pedestrian signals.  - Priority transit stops will be upgraded to provide more waiting room for transit riders and improved pedestrian access to transit stops along Liberty Avenue, in coordination with the Port Authority of Allegheny County. - Bicycle travel lanes on Liberty Avenue between 32nd Street to Herron Avenue connecting the Liberty Avenue bike lanes leading to Bloomfield with bike facilities planned in the Strip District. Feedback will be incorporated into future designs. Construction is planned for Summer 2023. Registration is required and information for the virtual meeting can be found here.  The Liberty Avenue Safety Improvement Project is anticipated to invest $6.2 million and is funded through a  Highway Safety Improvement Program by the federal and state governments.  Additional information about the Liberty Avenue Safety Improvement Project can be found on DOMI’s projects website.  Rendering of a potential design that will be presented at the public meeting for community feedback. | 14/9/2021 14:48:10 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Tuesday, September 14, 2021 | No public events scheduled. | 14/9/2021 09:20:17 |
| Pittsburgh Receives $433,000 National Grant for Community-Led Greenway Improvement | PITTSBURGH, PA (September 14, 2021) Mayor William Peduto announced today a $433,000, two-and-a-half year grant from the National Recreation and Parks Association for the Greenways Partnership Program. This grant was received and will be administered by the OnePGH Fund in close partnership with the City of Pittsburgh to enhance the city’s 1,200-acre network of greenways. The City will be using the funding to develop a model for public-nonprofit-community partnerships to maintain and improve greenways for residents and visitors through the Greenways for Pittsburgh program. Pittsburgh will receive ongoing technical assistance, professional development and access to networks of like-minded park and recreation professionals throughout the country.  “Greenways provide essential green space to help build strong, healthy and resilient communities,” said Mayor Peduto. “This grant provides the City the opportunity continue to build on over 30 years of community-led stewardship to ensure that our stewards have the resources to improve greenways, our greenways continue to get the attention they deserve and our communities have access to enjoy them.”  The grant funding will be administered to the OnePGH Fund to work towards goals outlined in Greenways for Pittsburgh, managed by the Department of City Planning. The City has long relied on unfunded volunteer stewardship groups to assist in the maintenance of the greenways, so the model will include expanding and empowering a network of community stewardship groups to work with the City to identify areas of need and improvement in greenways and creating a menu of partner organizations and contractors to conduct restoration and access work. Additionally, the OnePGH fund will hire a greenway contractor to make the program financially and ecologically sustainable through preservation and restoration carbon credits.  The program will expand on the work started by an ongoing pilot program for the Hazelwood Greenway, funded by the Trust for Public Land. The City is working with community partners to identify projects and priorities for restoring the greenway to a safe, high-quality and ecologically healthy green space. Their community partners include Landforce for trail maintenance, Allegheny GoatScape for weed management, Tree Pittsburgh for restoration planting and the Hazelwood Initiative for community events and engagement.  To learn more about the work on the Hazelwood Greenway and the framework for the Greenways Partnership program, visit the project’s EngagePGH page. About the ONEPGH FundThe ONEPGH Fund is a nonprofit organization dedicated to improving the lives of all Pittsburghers. The Fund exists at the confluence of local government, business, philanthropy, and the nonprofit sector. The ONEPGH Fund advances civic initiatives through collaboration between sectors to address Pittsburgh’s most complex challenges. Inspired by the City of Pittsburgh’s first ONEPGH Resilience Strategy, the ONEPGH Fund helps to create partnerships between local government and residents by leveraging the power of the Pittsburgh community. The Fund selects projects based upon the ability to leverage public and private resources, foster cross-sector collaboration, encourage innovation, and demonstrate measurable impact. Learn more here. About the National Recreation and Park AssociationThe National Recreation and Park Association (NRPA) is the leading not-for-profit organization dedicated to building strong, vibrant and resilient communities through the power of parks and recreation. With more than 60,000 members, NRPA advances this mission by investing in and championing the work of park and recreation professionals and advocates — the catalysts for positive change in service of equity, climate-readiness, and overall health and well-being. For more information, visit www.nrpa.org. For digital access to NRPA’s flagship publication, Parks &amp; Recreation, visit www.parksandrecreation.org. About The Trust for Public LandThe Trust for Public Land creates parks and protects land for people, ensuring healthy, livable communities for generations to come. Millions of people live near a Trust for Public Land park, garden, or natural area, and millions more visit these sites every year. Read more here. | 14/9/2021 12:45:54 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Wednesday, September 15, 2021 | Speaking at POLITICO Tech Summit 2021Time: 11 a.m.Location: Virtual, register hereRoberto Clemente Day Key to the City Presentation CeremonyTime: 1:00 p.m.Location: Roberto Clemente Statue, PNC ParkGarden Theater Block Sign Lighting and GroundbreakingTime: 5:30 p.m. | 15/9/2021 09:36:53 |
| City of Pittsburgh Announces Environmental Insights Explorer Partnership with Google for Climate Change Mitigation Data | PITTSBURGH, PA (September 15, 2021) The Department of City Planning’s Sustainability and Resilience Division has unveiled their online public Environmental Insights Explorer (EIE). Developed by Google, EIE provides climate action data visualized on interactive maps to see building carbon emissions, transportation emissions, rooftops that could successfully host solar panels, and tree canopy coverage citywide.  EIE will provide baseline knowledge to better understand and help prioritize city climate change mitigation initiatives as part of Mayor William Peduto’s Climate Action Plan 3.0. The tool can be used to look at big picture citywide emissions trends and zoom in on specific buildings or areas to see more acute climate data. The City of Pittsburgh is working with Google to use their advanced EIE algorithm to annually produce emissions inventory data. The Sustainability and Resilience Division, in collaboration with ICLEI – Local Governments for Sustainability, currently collects and analyzes emissions data every five years to create a greenhouse gas inventory to develop a climate action plan. Compiling the data takes city staff, agencies and other partners over a year to complete because data sets are not centralized. This tool will be updated annually and allow the City to track climate progress at more frequent intervals.  “This is a critical tool in helping us to understand climate change and how it affects our city,” said Mayor Peduto. “These maps make it easy for the City and our citizens to pinpoint areas of concern, which make it easier to develop creative and effective solutions. Everyone has a role to play in climate change and I encourage our businesses and residents to have a look at how emissions affect your community.” The tool allows Pittsburghers to visually understand environmental impacts and the ability to decrease emissions by creating efficiencies in the transportation, building and energy sectors and increasing tree canopy. The tool also allows Pittsburghers to assess solar potential for their own buildings as well as how and where planting trees can contribute to cooling our city. Examples of ways to use EIE to mitigate climate change include:  - EIE shows that citywide transportation emissions have decreased by over 20% since the beginning of the pandemic, suggesting that 1/5 of transportation emissions come from commuting. This could indicate that using shared, public or alternative transportation options to get to work or school could reduce emissions.  - Companies and private building owners can use the map to understand their carbon footprint and see if their rooftop is a good candidate to install solar as an alternative energy source.  - Residents could use the map to see how their home, school or office building is contributing to carbon emissions and how that can change over time by taking steps towards efficiency. - EIE maps trees, surface temperatures and population density to see how trees are helping to mitigate the affects of climate change and inform what areas need additional trees, which can support the Shade Tree Commission’s new Equitable Street Tree Investment Strategy.“Pittsburgh was one of the first cities to pilot EIE in 2018, before it expanded to more than 10,000 cities worldwide, and is one of only 15 cities with an EIE map of the city’s tree canopy,” said Chief Resilience Officer Grant Ervin. “The collaboration with Google gives us a critical tool to identify opportunity areas for carbon emissions reduction and how we can help residents build resilience and adapt to our changing climate.  We are excited to be at the forefront of cities advancing technologies to address the climate crisis.”  The EIE is available here on the City’s website and additional information about Google’s EIE is available here. | 15/9/2021 10:10:45 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Thursday, September 16, 2021 | USCIS Naturalization CeremonyTime: 10 a.m.Location: City-County Building | 16/9/2021 09:14:08 |
| Beechwood Boulevard Traffic Calming Project to Start Monday | PITTSBURGH, PA (September 16, 2021) The City of Pittsburgh’s Department of Mobility and Infrastructure (DOMI) is pleased to announce traffic calming measures on Beechwood Boulevard from Rosemont Lane to Luster Street. Data collected in 2020 indicated that 97% of vehicles traveling on Beechwood Boulevard in this area exceed the posted speed limit of 25 mph, with an 85th percentile speed of 38 mph. The rate of speeding along with crash history in this area indicated a strong need for a traffic calming intervention.This portion of the project will include the construction of four (4) speed humps on Beechwood Boulevard. Permanent signage and pavement markings will be installed to alert motorists of approaching speed humps. Speed humps are midblock traffic calming devices that raise the entire wheelbase of a vehicle to reduce its speed. In conjunction with speed humps, a pedestrian refuge island at the crosswalk near Guy Street and a painted median around the curve near Rosemount Lane will be installed.Work is tentatively expected to begin on Monday September 20, 2021, and is expected to last one week, weather permitting. Hours of construction will be 7:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. One lane of traffic on Beechwood Boulevard will be closed to traffic, with flaggers stationed at each intersection in order to allow local traffic access to and from their residences. Temporary no parking signage will be posted throughout the corridor where work is taking place.Thank you for your cooperation during this time and we hope there will be only minor inconveniences. If you have any questions or require further information regarding this closure you may contact the City’s Response Center by calling 311 or 412-255-2621.If you have questions about this project or other traffic calming projects, you may contact us by email at trafficcalming@pittsburghpa.gov, or by calling 3-1-1. You can learn more about DOMI’s Neighborhood Traffic Calming Program at www.pittsburghpa.gov/domi/traffic-calming. | 16/9/2021 12:25:04 |
| Webster Avenue/Bigelow Boulevard Nightly Closures Starting Next Week for I-579 CAP Project | PITTSBURGH, PA (September 17, 2021) The City of Pittsburgh Department of Mobility and Infrastructure advises that Webster Avenue / Bigelow Boulevard eastbound between Chatham Street and Washington Place will experience an intermittent full closure, NIGHTLY, as needed, from 8PM-6AM starting Monday, September 20, 2021 through Friday, October 8, 2021.The restriction is necessary to allow the contractor to pave the newly constructed concrete roadway and for the installation of traffic poles and signals at the intersection of Webster Avenue/Bigelow Blvd. and Chatham Street associated with the “CAP Project”. Traffic will be detoured to Sixth Avenue, to Center Avenue, and then to Washington Place.  When travelling through the work area, use caution and expect delays.The work is being performed by JB Fay Co. If you have any questions concerning this closure, please contact their Project Manager, Chuck Grabner, at 412-779-8354. | 17/9/2021 14:55:42 |
| Milling and Paving Resume Monday | PITTSBURGH, PA (September 17, 2021) The City of Pittsburgh Department of Mobility and Infrastructure (DOMI) is continuing its 2021 milling and paving program next week.    Streets being milled include:    Whited St, Altmar St, Broadway Ave, Climax St, Frampton Ave, Chalfont St, Wilbur, Nice Way, Fire Way, Wilmar St, Hilton St, Omaha St, Brutus Way, Arlington Ave and Chartiers. Streets being paved include:    Overlook Dr, Briar Way, Texola, Overlook Dr, Panther Hollow Rd, Hobart St, Whited St, Altmar St, Kirsopp Ave, Carnahan Rd, Elmbank, Bantam Way, Paul Pl, N Meadowcroft Ave, Louisiana Ave, Broadway Ave, Bodkin St, Nice Way, Wilbur, Arlington Ave, Chalfont St, Hilton St, Chartiers, Brutus Way, Frampton Ave, Climax St and Omaha St. The full paving schedule for the week, including further details on streets and intersections, is available here.    This year the City is investing nearly $16 million in the street resurfacing program, which supports asphalt street resurfacing, ADA curb ramp upgrades on paved streets, and repair of concrete, brick and block stone streets throughout Pittsburgh.  Approximately 34 miles of streets will be resurfaced this year. Additional mileage will be resurfaced through cooperation agreements with local public utilities. Mechanical patching will improve many miles more by addressing particular trouble spots on otherwise acceptable street corridors.       While many residents are continuing to work from home, the City will be continuing extra efforts to notify residents to move their vehicles to enable street resurfacing to proceed. Streets scheduled for resurfacing will be posted weekly on DOMI’s website and will be publicized through city social media channels. | 17/9/2021 11:09:31 |
| Director of Mobility and Infrastructure to Leave to Join Federal Transit Administration | PITTSBURGH, PA (September 17, 2021) Mayor William Peduto announced today that Karina Ricks, the Director of the Department of Mobility and Infrastructure (DOMI), will be leaving her role with the City of Pittsburgh.   “As the very first Director of DOMI, Karina has established a structure in DOMI that brings vision and energy so that our infrastructure not only meets the demands of today, but is designed thoughtfully, inclusively, equitably and sustainably so that we are prepared for the next generations of mobility. Under her leadership, the City has built bridges, paved record miles of roads, introduced autonomous vehicles and rideshares and found creative and effective solutions so that our roads are safe and our public infrastructure is for all.”   Director Ricks joined the Peduto administration in February 2017 as the inaugural director of the brand new DOMI. Intended to lead efforts to provide residents with safe, accessible, sustainable and efficient transportation options through working with multiple agencies, integrating technology and bringing equitable shared mobility to the city, Director Ricks also crafted DOMI’s principles:   - No one dies or is seriously injured traveling on city streets.  - Every household in Pittsburgh can access fresh fruits and vegetables within 20 minutes travel of home, without the requirement of a private vehicle.  - All trips less than 1 mile are easy and enjoyable to walk, roll or bike.  - No household must spend more than 45% of household income to satisfy basic housing, transportation and energy needs.  - The design, maintenance and operation of city streets reflects the values of our community.  Under her leadership, DOMI has built a talented and committed team that has delivered multiple projects and programs that fulfill these principles and meet the needs of the Pittsburgh community. Among them:  - Delivering the investment of nearly a quarter of a billion dollars ($237,000,000) in capital infrastructure projects to dramatically expand improvement and restoration of roads, bridges, public steps and more. This includes $67 million for street resurfacing, $28 million in bridge projects and repairs and a 50% increase in on-street bike(+) facilities.  - Delivering community-driven and publicly transparent projects, programs and action plans, including the City Steps Plan, Bike(+) Plan and Pedestrian Safety Action Plan as well as neighborhood-based plans and initiatives to deliver high service and prioritize safety.  - Establishing new policies and management structures for emerging mobility including autonomous vehicles, micromobility and curbside management.   - Introducing new programs to improve safety and quality of life in the city including pedestrian crossings and sidewalk improvements, traffic calming, bike(+) infrastructure and expanded trails.  - Laying the groundwork to deliver on smart city infrastructure including modernized traffic signals and energy efficient street lighting.  - Working with partners across the city and region to support improvements in public transit, equitable mobility, parking management, land development projects and utility upgrades.   - Responding to over 25 landslides and massively scaling up slope movement as well as flood and stormwater mitigation in response to the increasing impacts of climate change, investing nearly $30 million.  - Quickly adapting to the COVID-19 pandemic to activate public rights of way for streeteries to facilitate new business operations and slow streets to promote safety in neighborhoods.   “It has been a great honor to serve the people of Pittsburgh,” she said, “I am proud of the strong and capable organization we have built and the deep bench of leadership and skill within it. I know DOMI will continue to deliver world-class projects in the months and years to come.”   Director Ricks will be moving on to serve as the Associate Administrator for Research, Innovation and Demonstration with the Federal Transit Administration in Washington, D.C. In this role, she will work to advance key initiatives around transit safety, electrification, mobility on demand and transit of the future to serve the mission of equitable, efficient and sustainable mobility for both urban and rural America. Director Ricks’ resignation is effective Friday, September 24. | 16/9/2021 23:13:37 |
| Pittsburgh Becomes 12th Certified Welcoming Place for Immigrant, Refugee and New Americans in the United States | PITTSBURGH, PA (September 17, 2021) As part of the City of Pittsburgh’s Welcoming Week 2021, the Office of Mayor William Peduto and Office of Equity’s Welcoming Pittsburgh are pleased to announce that Pittsburgh has been named a Certified Welcoming place, becoming the 12th in the United States to achieve this designation.   To become Certified Welcoming, the City of Pittsburgh completed an intensive evaluation. Local policies and programs for immigrant, refugee and New American inclusion, led by Welcoming Pittsburgh, were compared to the comprehensive Welcoming Standard that covers community investments from education to economic development to policing. As of 2019, immigrant residents in Pittsburgh make up nearly 4% of the population, with 76% being of prime working age (16-64). Additionally, immigrant residents are 27% more likely to be entrepreneurs and more likely to hold graduate degrees. According to New American Economy, immigrants in Pittsburgh pay $1.2 billion in taxes and hold $2.7 billion in spending power, demonstrating their sizable impact on the economy locally and beyond.  "Pittsburgh has a tradition of welcoming immigrants from all around the world to contribute to the rich cultural fabric of our city,” said Mayor Peduto. “We know that today, just as it has been historically, immigrants make our city stronger because when our neighbors have equitable access to opportunities and succeed, Pittsburgh succeeds. That’s why we have strived to be a welcoming city and are grateful to be a Certified Welcoming city. I’d like to thank Welcoming America for recognizing the work of Welcoming Pittsburgh, our community partners and our residents in creating a community where our policies and programs promote action for immigrant inclusion, especially in a time where our immigrant neighbors need us the most.” Welcoming Pittsburgh works with several partners to implement policies, programs and initiatives guided by the Welcoming Pittsburgh Roadmap, a comprehensive citywide plan compiled by 40 local leaders from diverse sectors and over 3,000 community members. Partners include the Welcoming Pittsburgh steering committee, All for All Coalition, Allegheny County Department of Human Services, Urban Redevelopment Authority of Pittsburgh and more.  Policies and initiatives enacted as a result of the roadmap are available here.  The Certified Welcoming program is run and administered by Welcoming America, a national nonprofit organization that aims to build a nation of neighbors by fostering welcoming communities. "It’s my great pleasure to congratulate the City of Pittsburgh on achieving the status of Certified Welcoming. As Pittsburgh becomes a more diverse city, and prepares to welcome new families from Afghanistan, this public-private partnership reflects the phenomenal work of community based organizations with the public sector to reduce the barriers residents might face to full participation - civically, socially, and economically," said Rachel Perić, executive director of Welcoming America. “A big thanks to Mayor Peduto for his leadership and legacy; Feyisola Alabi of Welcoming Pittsburgh; and the Welcoming Pittsburgh Steering Committee for their work and belief in welcoming values as a benefit for all Pittsburghers."  Pittsburgh landlords who are interested in working with the U.S. Department of Housing &amp; Urban Development to provide housing for refugees can find out more information here, fill out this poll or contact refugeehousing@pittsburghpa.gov. About Welcoming PittsburghWelcoming Pittsburgh is an immigrant, refugee and asylee integration strategy launched by Mayor William Peduto in 2014. The Mayor’s Office is leading implementation of the plan through cross-sectoral partnerships. Welcoming Pittsburgh is rooted in a commitment to ensure a more livable city for all residents. About Certified WelcomingThe Certified Welcoming program launched in 2017 by Welcoming America to establish a formal designation for cities and counties that have taken action on their commitment to welcoming and met the high bar set by the Welcoming Standard. Certified Welcoming communities gain a competitive advantage by using their designation for attracting and retaining a global workforce and businesses whose values align with welcoming and inclusion. Participants complete a rigorous independent audit to evaluate their compliance with the Standard. Both Certified Welcoming and the Welcoming Standard were designed following standards set by ISEAL.  About Welcoming AmericaWelcoming America is a nonprofit, nonpartisan organization that leads a movement of inclusive communities becoming more prosperous by ensuring everyone belongs. We believe that all people, including immigrants, are valued contributors and vital to the success of our communities and shared future. Learn more at welcomingamerica.org. Media ContactsFor Welcoming America: Lola Pak, lola@welcomingamerica.orgFor the City of Pittsburgh: Molly Onufer, molly.onufer@pittsburghpa.gov | 17/9/2021 09:41:21 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Friday, September 17 and Saturday, September 18, 2021 | Friday, September 17, 2021KDKA Radio Morning Show with Larry RichertTime: 8:30 a.m.Remarks at RustBuilt Conference 2021Time: 11:45 a.m.NeuBase Therapeutics Ribbon Cutting EventTime: 1:30 p.m.Saturday, September 18Garbage Olympics Closing CelebrationTime: 11:30 a.m.Location: Threadbare Cider, Spring GardenALCOSAN Clean Water Star AwardsTime: 1:00 p.m.Location: ALCOSAN, 3300 Prebel Avenue | 16/9/2021 22:37:17 |
| City Seeking Fourth of July Fireworks Sponsors | PITTSBURGH, PA (September 20, 2021) The City of Pittsburgh has announced that it will be seeking sponsors for the 2022 Fourth of July fireworks display, the centerpiece of the Pittsburgh Independence Day Celebration at Point State Park.  In recent years, the City has taken on the full financial responsibility of the fireworks display in addition to the cost of providing public works, public safety and other city support for the Independence Day Celebration. With pressing community needs throughout the city, the Office of Special Events is looking for a partner to invest in sponsoring the fireworks show. Interested sponsors should contact the Office of Special Events at specialevents@pittsburghpa.gov to discuss sponsorship opportunities. | 20/9/2021 14:39:31 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Monday, September 20, 2021 | Light of Life GroundbreakingTime: 9:30 a.m. | 20/9/2021 09:34:14 |
| Over $7.1 Million Added to the Greater Hill District Neighborhood Reinvestment Fund for Community Investments in the Middle and Upper Hill District | PITTSBURGH, PA (September  20, 2021) The City of Pittsburgh, City Councilman R. Daniel Lavelle, Pittsburgh Penguins, Buccini/Pollin Group, Inc. and the Urban Redevelopment Authority of Pittsburgh (URA), announced today that the Greater Hill District Neighborhood Reinvestment Fund has received an initial capitalized payment of $7,187,045 from the development partners on the Lower Hill development site. This funding will be used to invest in development projects and other community needs in the Greater Hill District as outlined in the “Community Collaboration and Implementation Plan” between the neighborhood and the developers.  “I am grateful that we are not only seeing the development in the Lower Hill move forward to right the wrongs of the past and create opportunities in the historic Hill District, but that our development partners are demonstrating their commitment to the Hill community by providing community investment funding up front,” said Mayor William Peduto. “I’d like to thank all of the partners in this development and the Hill District community for creating a model where communities and developers can work together to help ensure the community benefits and drives investment in their neighborhood from these developments.” The guidelines for the Greater Hill District Neighborhood Reinvestment Fund were approved by the URA board in June. As a condition of the approval process, the developers, a joint venture comprised of the Buccini/Pollin Group, Inc (BPG), Pittsburgh Arena Real Estate Redevelopment, LP (PAR), Clay Cove Capital, LLC, and First National Bank (FNB), committed to funding their 10-years' worth of payments all up front, so that the community could receive funding immediately rather than after construction is completed.  Bomani M. Howze, Vice President of Development for the Buccini/Pollin Group, said, “We are excited to have delivered on our promise of the first installment of $7.2 Million toward the Greater Hill District Neighborhood Reinvestment Fund. The monetization of LERTA monies from the FNB Financial Center symbolizes our commitment to ensure that catalytic, Lower Hill projects are delivered with intent of having lasting impact in the Middle and Upper Hill District.” The more than $7 million is generated by the Lower Hill Local Economic Revitalization Tax Assistance (LERTA) district, which was driven by Councilman Lavelle and the Hill Community Development Corporation in 2015. The LERTA allows property owners on the Lower Hill development site to receive real estate tax abatements from the three taxing bodies (Pittsburgh Public School District, City of Pittsburgh and Allegheny County) on each parcel for 10 years, with half of that funding going into the Greater Hill District Neighborhood Reinvestment Fund.  "The advancement of the LERTA dollars is in keeping with the commitment that I made to the Hill District Community: that the development of the Lower Hill would be for the explicit benefit of residents of the Middle and Upper Hill District,” said Councilman Lavelle.  Some of the potential uses for the funding could include project development initiatives and counseling programs, children and youth education initiatives, rent and mortgage assistance subsidies, other wealth-building initiatives, preservation of Hill District institutions and investments that generate recurring or matching revenue for the fund.  "I am thankful and encouraged by the development team’s investment up front to the community,” said URA Deputy Executive Director Dr. Diamonte Walker. “The URA is committed to working with our partners to ensure that the Lower Hill redevelopment reflects the wants and needs of the community and benefits all the residents of the Hill District." Applications for funding will be received and reviewed by a community advisory board, who will issue recommendations to the URA Board of Directors who govern the fund. Current guidelines designate representatives from City Council District 6 and the Hill Community Development Corporation as co-chairs of the advisory board. | 20/9/2021 11:04:54 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Tuesday, September 21, 2021 | Speaking at Strong Cities Network State and Local Officials Virtual Roundtable: Countering Extremism and Hate at the Local LevelTime: 3:00 p.m. | 21/9/2021 10:08:22 |
| Community Meeting on Sustainable Solar Farm in Swisshelm Park to be Held on September 28 | PITTSBURGH, PA (September 21, 2021)  The Urban Redevelopment Authority of Pittsburgh (URA), City of Pittsburgh and Office of City Councilman Corey O’Connor will be hosting a community meeting in Swisshelm Park on September 28 to share information about the possibility of developing a solar farm on what would have been the site of Summerset Phase III.  Community benefits from installing a solar farm at this site could include: - Improving air quality and public health by providing pollution-free energy to consumers - Delivering power to consumers at a lower cost - Keeping the lights on for consumers during outages by diversifying the sources of energy feeding into the local power grid“This is an innovative project that will help create sustainable energy options for the neighborhood and the city,” said Mayor William Peduto. “We look forward to working with the community on the development and thank the URA and Councilman O’Connor for their partnership.”  “I live in the neighborhood and have heard from neighbors that they are excited about this opportunity,” said Councilman O’Connor. “We are looking forward to bringing the community together to discuss bringing this project to Swisshelm Park. We thank the URA and Mayor’s Office and look forward to continuing this community conversation.” The community meeting will be held virtually on Zoom or Facebook Live on Tuesday, September 28 at 7:00 p.m. Additional information and a registration link can be found here on the URA’s website. | 21/9/2021 11:55:18 |
| City Partners with Kiwibot to Pilot Free Delivery of Food, Medicine and Books by Delivery Robot | PITTSBURGH, PA (September 21, 2021) The City of Pittsburgh Department of Mobility and Infrastructure (DOMI) has announced a pilot program with Kiwibot to work with local businesses like Carnegie Library of Pittsburgh, Wilson’s Pharmacy and Taquitos to provide free, equitable delivery of books, medicine and food to residents through personal delivery devices, commonly known as delivery robots. The pilot is funded by the Knight Foundation and will focus on bringing residents to the center of the conversation around this emerging technology.  During the pilot, the City will explore how to increase affordable delivery options for local businesses, pharmacies and libraries for “last mile” deliveries, focusing the pilot in portions of the Bloomfield, Garfield and Lawrenceville neighborhoods. The City and local partners will focus on exploring opportunities to provide equitable access to food, education and medication while minimizing delivery cost for locally-owned businesses.The pilot will also provide an opportunity for city officials to ensure that delivery robots, which were recently legalized in the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, are deployed only in areas where they can operate safely among pedestrians, bicyclists and vehicles.  Preparations, planning and mapping for the pilot between DOMI and Kiwibot started in July and delivery robots are expected to be deployed later this week. Up to 10 delivery robots will be deployed, each remotely controlled by a human supervisor.  The City will also be working with Assemble, a community space for arts and technology, to expand awareness about the personal delivery device technology and technology careers with local youth.  Additional information can be found on the pilot’s EngagePGH website. | 21/9/2021 11:01:19 |
| Child Care Quality Fund Grants Over $387,250 for Improvements to Local Child Care Facilities | PITTSBURGH, PA (September 21, 2021) Mayor William Peduto’s Office of Equity has announced that the Child Care Quality Fund (CCFQ) has awarded $387,250 in grants to eleven local licensed child care facilities to implement strategic investments to ensure that young children have access to safe and high quality early learning and care, as well as to help improve their state Keystone STARS quality rating.  This is the first round of grant awards under the program chosen by the CCQF selection committee, who will review applications and disburse grants from the $2 million fund each quarter. Facilities can qualify for maximum funding amounts based on their size. One family and group child care home was awarded the maximum $12,500; $124,750 total will be invested in improvements to five centers licensed to serve under 100 children; and $250,000 total was awarded to five centers licensed to serve over 100 children.  The child care facilities that were granted the funding are located in Bloomfield, Brookline, Carrick, Crawford-Roberts, Downtown, East Liberty, Greenfield, Larimer, Mount Washington and Perry Hilltop.  Each awardee will work with a Quality Coach from the Early Learning Resource Center Region 5 in Allegheny County to make improvements to their facility and curriculum to advance their state quality rating. Eligible expenses include facility or program improvements. Additional information can be found on the CCQF website.  The CCQF was developed in partnership between the Mayor’s Office of Equity, Pittsburgh City Council Women’s Caucus, Early Learning Resource Center Region 5, Allegheny County and Trying Together. Applications for this inaugural round of funding launched in July. Applications for the program are managed by Trying Together. | 21/9/2021 10:44:33 |
| Citiparks Distributes 1 Million Free Meals to Eligible Children and Seniors Since Start of Pandemic | PITTSBURGH, PA (September 22, 2021) Eighteen months after the start of the COVID-19 pandemic, the City of Pittsburgh Department of Parks &amp; Recreation (Citiparks) has reached an incredible milestone, having distributed one million free meals to eligible children and seniors.  After all community recreation and senior centers closed in March 2020, Citiparks created a new system of Grab n Go food distributions at those locations to ensure that youth and seniors in need had safe access to meals. The Grab n Go model continued even after some locations re-opened in summer 2021. Citiparks has also worked with several organizations such as Parkhurst Dining, Eat’n Park, Salvation Army and many others to arrange for additional meal distributions to those in need.  "With all of our Citiparks' Recreation and Senior centers having been closed from March 2020 until just a few months ago due to the pandemic, it's been a tremendous, collaborative effort to have been able to reach this milestone," Citiparks Director Ross Chapman said. "Every team member had committed themselves to ensuring that children and seniors would have free meals available to them from the onset of the pandemic and worked extremely hard, during a very difficult period, to distribute these meals. Naturally, our community partners, program sponsors, and so many others who stepped-in to provide meals, donations and assist us, afforded us the opportunity to be able to have this kind of impact, and we're all so very appreciative of their support. There is no way that we would have been able to have accomplish this without the full support of Mayor Peduto and his Administration, the residents of Pittsburgh and all of the community advocates who came together on this - it's really incredible. Thank you all!" | 22/9/2021 11:57:19 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Wednesday, September 22, 2021 | OneValley at the Roundhouse Opening Reception and Press BriefingTime: 10 a.m.Location: 4170 Second Avenue, HazelwoodWelcoming Civic Leadership Academy Fall 2021 CohortTime: 6:00 p.m. | 22/9/2021 09:14:36 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Thursday, September 23, 2021 | Bosch Safety &amp; Security Headquarters Ribbon CuttingTime: 2:00 p.m. | 22/9/2021 23:09:23 |
| Applications Open for City Youth Sports Grant Program | PITTSBURGH, PA (September 23, 2021) Mayor William Peduto, in partnership with City Council President Theresa Kail-Smith, has announced that applications are open for the City Youth Sports Grant Program. This $150,000 annual fund will assist local youth sports team to purchase equipment and gear to continue their critical programming that keeps young people active, engaged and inspired.  The fund will be administered by the City and will provide grants up to $10,000 to help local nonprofit and community-based sports programs improve and expand their programming to more participants, support programs to remove barriers to participate and formalize partnerships between local programs and the City.  “The financial strain of the pandemic was felt by families and community-based organizations and created barriers to critical activities like youth sports programs that serve as community builders and spaces of refuge for the city’s youth,” said Mayor Peduto. “This program will offer relief to programs that took a financial hit, allow new programs to be developed and get our young people back on the field or court with their teammates.”  Eligible expenses for the funding include non-player-personalized uniforms, playing equipment, purchasing and/or leasing play time within the city, beautification of play space, transportation, hotel/lodging expenses for out of town competitions, trophies and awards, construction of new play places and reimbursement for any allowable use from the previous playing season.  “I’d like to thank Mayor Peduto, Chief of Staff Dan Gilman, Office of Management and Budget Director Kevin Pawlos and my colleagues on City Council for committing this relief and investment for our youth around the city,” said Council President Kail-Smith. “I also want to thank our coaches, families and volunteers who are doing important work for our young people and strengthening our communities by giving them the opportunity to be part of a team and who will now have additional city resources to continue their great work.” Additional information about the program and program applications are available here. Funding applications are due October 29. | 23/9/2021 11:18:35 |
| City Releases Ambitious Long Range Mobility Vision Plan for the Next 50 Years of Transportation | PITTSBURGH, PA (September 23, 2021) The City of Pittsburgh Department of Mobility and Infrastructure (DOMI) has released the 2070 Mobility Vision Plan, a long range vision for the future of mobility in Pittsburgh. The plan provides an ambitious strategic roadmap to maintain past investments, address current disparities and meet future mobility needs with a just, efficient, accessible and sustainable transportation system over the next 50 years.  The 2070 Mobility Vision Plan serves as a guide for infrastructure investment to improve mobility justice and economic growth. It is rooted in DOMI’s core values - safety, equity and resiliency - while planning for a future that will see not only the rapid development of mobility innovation but also the impact of climate change. DOMI staff reviewed projects, plans and community input prepared over the decades and from across the city as the foundation for the project list. Public engagement for the 2070 Mobility Vision Plan reiterated many of these ideas and generated new ones. “When we think about Pittsburgh, we think about innovation and that includes our transportation and mobility networks,” said Mayor William Peduto. “After working with the community to define their vision for the future of transportation in Pittsburgh, DOMI has outlined a strategic path forward of what could be possible in the next five, 20 and 50-years.”  The ambitious long-term plan include large-scale projects, such as an aerial ropeway transit network (gondolas), rapid direct transit to the airport, three new river crossings, an urban terminal for vertical take-off and landing aircraft and high-speed intercity transit. Shorter-term investments in the plan call for ubiquitous and accessible sidewalks, a complete and connected bike(+) network and green infrastructure street retrofits. "It may be tempting to dismiss the 2070 Mobility Vision Plan as fantastical or audacious,” said Director Karina Ricks, “but that would be a mistake. Fifty years is a long time, and a lot will change. Look back at how much has changed over the last fifty. It is critical we have a plan to guide us.”   The 2070 Mobility Vision Plan can be viewed here. | 23/9/2021 11:19:53 |
| Four Mayor's Office Staff Announce Departures for New Positions | PITTSBURGH, PA (September 24, 2021) Four members of the Office of Mayor William Peduto have announced their departure for new positions.   “Alicia, Henry, Tiffini and Darlene have served in this administration for several years and they have brought energy and passion to their roles to make Pittsburgh a better place. I thank each of them for their dedication, drive and creativity to deliver critical programs and services to our residents,” said Mayor Peduto. “We were lucky to have selfless and smart public servants and I know they will each continue to offer their gifts for the betterment of our neighbors.” Alicia Carberry has served as the Operations Assistant in the Mayor's Office since August of 2017 and has worked for the City since 2015. In her role, Carberry has worked closely with the Chief Operations Officer and departments related to operations. Throughout her six years, Carberry has done incredible work in streamlining and standardizing operations so that staff could focus on initiatives that support and further the City’s vision.  Some of her many accomplishments include:  - Serving on the Clean Pittsburgh and Shade Tree Commissions, working collaboratively on standard operating procedures for both.- Working closely with anti-litter partners, such as formalizing a partnership between the City and Allegheny CleanWays.- Co-founding and organizing the Garbage Olympics for five years.- Coordinating 11 departments to develop the 14-point framework for a City-led deconstruction initiative.Carberry also worked closely with city departments to develop the City’s Goals on Littering and Dumping (GOLD) plan. Carberry will be continuing her work on GOLD, zero litter and zero waste as the Department of Public Works Recycling Supervisor in the Bureau of Environmental Services. Monday is her last day with the Mayor’s Office.    Henry Horn Pyatt started in the Mayor’s Office in May of 2014 as the Small Business and Neighborhood Redevelopment Manager in the Bureau of Neighborhood Empowerment before becoming the Economic Opportunity Manager in the Office of Equity. Horn Pyatt has worked closely with stakeholders in the small business and redevelopment communities to ensure that local businesses have access to resources to succeed and grow.  Among Horn Pyatt’s many accomplishments over his seven years with the City are: - Establishing the Financial Empowerment Centers (FECs), which offer free one-on-one financial counseling to any resident over age 18 to help remove barriers for confusing, predatory and often perilous banking or financial management practices. Horn Pyatt served as the city lead to create the FECs in partnership with Neighborhood Allies, Advantage Credit Counseling and Cities for Financial Empowerment. As of September 2021, the FECs have helped 1,077 Pittsburghers increasing savings a total of $1,384.015 and reduced debt by $1,937,037.- Working closely with the Urban Redevelopment Authority of Pittsburgh (URA) to create and refine new technical assistance and financial tools for entrepreneurs who have talent and passion but may lack capital or business experience to elevate their enterprises.  - Organizing business districts and city departments to define and work towards shared, achievable goals to promote growth in neighborhood economic opportunities.- Promoting economic and business development programs that crossed municipal boundaries to enhance the local business network with programs like Go Online Grow Online (GOGO), which provided tools to help businesses migrate their services online during the pandemic. Utilizing multiple funding streams, this service was able to be used in the City of Pittsburgh but also in nearby municipalities so that small businesses throughout the region had access to this critical resource.  Horn Pyatt’s last day in the Mayor’s Office will be October 22 before he moves into his new role as Community Affairs Specialist in Pennsylvania for the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation.  Tiffini Gorman Simoneaux started in the Mayor’s Office as the Early Childhood Manager in August 2016 before her portfolio expanded to cover early childhood and other youth initiatives as the Youth and Education Manager in the Office of Equity. Throughout her five years with the City, Gorman Simoneaux has advocated for quality early childhood education and worked with stakeholders in the youth and education space throughout our region to improve accessibility of opportunities.  A few of her innumerable accomplishments include: - Launching the $2 million Child Care Quality Fund, which offers grants to early learning and child care facilities to enable them to improve and enhance the quality of their programs so there will be more high-quality care facilities for young children in Pittsburgh. - Implementing the Dolly Parton Imagination Library, which sends one free book a month to any child in the City of Pittsburgh aged 0-5 so that when they turn five, they have their own library of developmentally appropriate books. Between July 2019 and September 2021, the program has enrolled over 5,000 children and distributed over 83,000 books.  - Being selected to be a part of the National League of Cities inaugural class of Early Childhood Municipal Fellows to build the standards for early childhood nationally through sharing policies, insights and best practices with other municipal leaders from around the country.  Gorman Simoneaux’s last day in the Mayor’s Office will be November 1. She will be moving on to serve as the Outreach and Strategic Partnerships Director at A+ Schools. Darlene Watson began her role as the administrative assistant receptionist for the Mayor’s Office in September of 2016. During her time, she was an invaluable member of the team, welcoming visitors and callers to the Mayor’s Office and assisting them with a high level of welcoming service.  The accomplishments that she delivered daily with excellence and kindness include: - Answering dozens of phone calls to the Mayor’s Office daily.- Gathering information from residents with concerns or issues and working with city staff to ensure they were resolved in a timely manner.- Serving as the first person people encounter when visiting or contacting the Mayor’s Office and reflecting the values of the administration to provide friendly, transparent and effective services to residents and visitors.Watson’s last day with the city was Wednesday, September 22. She will be moving to a similar role with the Pittsburgh Penguins. | 24/9/2021 13:23:39 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Friday, September 24, 2021 | Trade Institute of Pittsburgh Ribbon CuttingTime: 2 p.m. | 24/9/2021 08:38:13 |
| Milling and Paving Resume Monday | PITTSBURGH, PA (September 24, 2021) The City of Pittsburgh Department of Mobility and Infrastructure (DOMI) is continuing its 2021 milling and paving program next week.    Streets being milled include: Climax St, Frampton Ave, Fire Way, Brutus Way, Hilton St, Chartiers, Wilmar St, Omaha St, Arlington Ave, Wilbur, Nice Way, East Liberty Blvd, Lowell, Renfrew, Winfield and Manetto Way. Streets being paved include: Louisiana Ave, Bodkin St, Elmbank, Virgin Way, Tarpon Way, Bantam Way. Paul Pl, Sheffield St, Tustin St, Jumoville St, Texola, Briar Way, Chalfont St, Climax St, Frampton Ave, Brutus Way, Fire Way, Chartiers, Chalfon St, Climax St, Hilton St, East Liberty Blvd, Lowell, Renfew and Winfield.The full paving schedule for the week, including further details on streets and intersections, is available here.    This year the City is investing well over $16 million in the street resurfacing program, which supports asphalt street resurfacing, ADA curb ramp upgrades on paved streets, and repair of concrete, brick and block stone streets throughout Pittsburgh.  Approximately 34 miles of streets will be resurfaced this year. Additional mileage will be resurfaced through cooperation agreements with local public utilities. Mechanical patching will improve many miles more by addressing particular trouble spots on otherwise acceptable street corridors.       While many residents are continuing to work from home, the City will be continuing extra efforts to notify residents to move their vehicles to enable street resurfacing to proceed. Streets scheduled for resurfacing will be posted weekly on DOMI’s website and will be publicized through city social media channels. | 24/9/2021 13:48:16 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Monday, September 27, 2021 | Interview with AxiosTime: 12:00 p.m. | 27/9/2021 08:53:47 |
| Fallowfield Avenue Full Closure | PITTSBURGH, PA  (September 27, 2021) The City of Pittsburgh’s Department of Mobility and Infrastructure (DOMI) is pleased to announce slope repair measures on Fallowfield Avenue from Hampshire Avenue to Broadway Avenue in the Beechview neighborhood.This work will be completed by Independent Enterprises, Inc., and will include stabilizing the slope, constructing a retaining wall and reconstructing the street, curbs and sidewalk along Fallowfield Avenue within the work area.Work is tentatively expected to begin on Monday, October 4, 2021, and is expected to be completed by April, 2022. Fallowfield Avenue will be closed to all vehicular traffic, allowing residents walking access to their homes. They will also be provided with temporary parking outside of the work area. All residences affected will be notified.Thank you for your cooperation during this time and we hope there will be only minor inconveniences. If you have any questions or require further information regarding this closure you may contact the City’s Response Center by calling 311 or 412-255-2621.If you are interested in further information about this project and others, please follow this link, https://pittsburghpa.gov/domi/current-projects/. | 27/9/2021 16:59:59 |
| Registration is Open for Steel City World Cup, Celebrating Our Local Global Community | PITTSBURGH, PA (September 27, 2021) The Office of Mayor William Peduto’s Welcoming Pittsburgh, in partnership with cohosts PUMP and Open Field, have announced that registration is still open for the Steel City World Cup, presented by BNY Mellon.  The Steel City World Cup hosts 32 teams representing 32 countries from around the world for one of the most culturally diverse events in the region. The tournament brings together nearly 1,000 players, fans and volunteers for dozens of soccer games in a festival atmosphere to celebrate international cultures and diversity, build relationships among Pittsburgh’s vibrant and growing world community and facilitate cross-cultural understanding and connections that lead to opportunities, resources and goodwill.   The group stage of the tournament will take place on October 23 with the elimination rounds on October 24. All players must be age 18 or older and teams must have at least three players whose country of origin is the same as the country they’re representing. Teams representing countries can register here by October 8.  Open Field is a Pittsburgh-based nonprofit organization that uses the game of soccer to promote life skills, leadership, girls' empowerment and social cohesion. Their global team engages more than 1,000 youth each year in Western PA and West/Central Africa in dynamic Sport for Social Impact programming. In Pittsburgh, Open Field works primarily with immigrant and refugee youth to provide safe, healthy, community-based activities for children and employment opportunities for teenagers. | 27/9/2021 13:31:11 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Tuesday, September 28, 2021 | No public events scheduled. | 28/9/2021 09:04:26 |
| City Submitting State Grant Applications for Three Critical Mobility Projects | PITTSBURGH, PA (September 28, 2021) The Peduto Administration is presenting three grant applications to City Council today for their approval. The grants are from the Pennsylvania Department of Community and Economic Development (DCED) Multimodal Transportation Fund Program and would be used for three critical street mobility projects around the city.  The first application is a grant request for $3 million from DCED for the South 21st Street Complete Green Street Project in the South Side. The project, which has been developed in partnership with the South Side community, ALCOSAN, Pittsburgh Water and Sewer Authority and Western Pennsylvania Conservancy, would transform South 21st Street with trees, grasses, green infrastructure and pedestrian improvements to manage increased stormwater.  The administration is also applying for $2,205,118 for the Second Avenue Streetscape project in Hazelwood and $2,987,125 for the Centre Avenue Streetscape project in the Hill District. The funding for both would be used to improve intersections, add lighting, repair sidewalks, add landscaping and improve mobility for the neighborhood. | 28/9/2021 09:23:22 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public - Wednesday, September 29, 2021 | Interview with Oliver MorrisonTime: 12:30 | 29/9/2021 09:29:22 |
| City Seeking Licensed Partner to Produce City Merchandise | PITTSBURGH, PA (September 29, 2021) Mayor William Peduto's Administration announced today that the City of Pittsburgh is issuing a request for proposals (RFP) for professional designers and apparel manufacturers to create officially licensed and branded City of Pittsburgh merchandise such as tshirts, hats and more.  The City of Pittsburgh and its iconic black and gold colors are known and recognized across the nation. Having a controlled and officially licensed partner to help cultivate, design and sell this merchandise will allow the Pittsburgh brand to reach new levels while promoting civic pride.  The City’s black and gold colors come from the coat of arms of its namesake, Sir William Pitt, and served as the inspiration for the City Flag and Great Seal. The colors would go on to become iconic with the first city sports team adopting them in 1925. Today, all the city's professional sports teams share the colors.  Once a partner is selected, merchandise will be designed and produced with a portion of the revenues returning to the City.  A copy of the RFP is available here on the City’s online procurement platform, Beacon. Learn more about the City of Pittsburgh’s Civic Standards, colors, &amp; history. | 29/9/2021 15:41:35 |
| Mossfield Street Closures on Saturday for Tree Maintenance | PITTSBURGH, PA (September 29, 2021) The Department of Public Works (DPW) has announced that Mossfield Street in Garfield will be temporarily closed this Saturday, October 2 from 7 a.m. to 1 p.m. Mossfield will be closed from the intersection with Schenley Avenue to the intersection with N Mathilda Street while DPW crews perform tree maintenance.  Detours will be posted, but travelers are advised to use Schenley Avenue to N Mathilda Street during the closure. | 29/9/2021 11:03:11 |
| City Rewires Entire City-County Building and Upgrades WiFi Connectivity with 1,000 Times Faster Speeds | PITTSBURGH, PA (September 29, 2021) The City of Pittsburgh Department of Innovation and Performance (I&amp;P) and Department of Public Works (DPW) have completed a 15-month, large-scale project to rewire and update the WiFi infrastructure in the City-County Building. This modernization project provides the epicenter of city operations with fast, reliable and wireless data connectivity so that staff can deliver efficient and effective services to the community.   All wiring and equipment were upgraded to modern standards. Prior to the modernization, the City-County Building was operating on a network of outdated technologies with poorly located connectivity distribution points that were overburdened by servicing multiple floors and multiple city departments.  This project included expanding the number of connection points to match the size and network demands of the City-County Building by over 120 access points for a complete and unified WiFi-mesh. Intermediate distribution frames, or areas where connectivity wires are centralized to service areas of the building, were redistributed to each floor to provide improved network service throughout the entire building. The City also upgraded the WiFi technology to Cat6a in order to provide over 1,000 times faster service than before.  “The positive outcomes of this project will be speed of connectivity and the availability to Wi-Fi access,” said Philip Savino, I&amp;P’s Assistant Director of IT Operations. “This project not only includes the modernization of wiring within the building to take care of connection issues but the addition of Wi-Fi that is redundant, reliable and consistent throughout all floors within city operations.”  | 30/9/2021 10:45:32 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Thursday, September 30, 2021 | Speaking at United Nations General Assembly Virtual Event: "Strong Cities Network: The Role of Cities in Advancing Global Efforts to Prevent and Counter Violent Extremism"Time: 10 a.m.Location: VirtualPress Conference with U.S. Commerce Secretary Gina RaimondoTime: 2:15 p.m. | 30/9/2021 09:25:53 |
| Mayor Peduto Submits Preliminary 2022 City Budgets | PITTSBURGH, PA (September 30, 2021) Mayor William Peduto submitted his preliminary 2022 City Budgets to City Council today, which includes a proposed $611,750,775 Operating Budget and $158,615,392 Capital Budget with no tax increases.  Since Mayor Peduto took office in 2014, he has prioritized responsible fiscal planning to develop long-term financial stability while using north star priorities to guide community-based budgeting, investments and expenditures. Despite the budgetary challenges presented by the pandemic, the 2022 budgets reinforce Mayor Peduto’s commitment to equitable, efficient and effective city operations and record investments in infrastructure.  The investments included in the preliminary budget demonstrate Mayor Peduto’s ongoing priorities, such as:  - Continued record investments in infrastructure improvements like paving, bridges and landslides - Rapid progress towards the city’s sustainability and 2030 Climate Action goals, including the citywide deployment of LED street lights and expanding the city’s fleet of electric vehicles  - Addressing the needs of our underserved communities through the Office of Community Health and Safety and the Office of Community Services and Violence Prevention   - Record investments in the city’s parks, including the first year of citywide parks tax revenue, as well as investments for free parks programs like Rec2Tech, which helps to prepare local youth for interest and careers in the technology sector - Vision Zero street design – creating streets with the vision that no one is hurt in a crash – so that no matter how people get where they’re going, they have safe streets to get there - Continued investments in Avenues of Hope, small businesses and affordable housing initiatives in partnership with the Urban Redevelopment Authority of Pittsburgh so that our neighbors and entrepreneurs have resources to cultivate success in the city This year, the City implemented a tool called ResourceX that allowed for an enhanced data-driven approach to budget decisions centered around equity and climate. City staff created insights within their budget requests on how those requests would help the City achieve both its climate action goals and possible cost reductions citywide. The Sustainability and Resilience Division provided additional guidance on what requests would help achieve Climate Action Plan goals.  “We’ve worked hard over the past seven years to develop and institutionalize a city that works for you and this preliminary budget builds off of the promises I made to our residents as mayor,” said Mayor Peduto. “Because of our years of financial management, we were able to withstand the pandemic without laying off city workers who provide frontline, essential services to all residents. The reality is that we all took a hit and just as our communities are recovering from the beginning of the pandemic, our budgets are too. These budgets do not have frills, but they reinforce my commitment to delivering relief and services that improve our city’s people, performance, place and planet so that our residents have a strong and sustainable city.” The 2022 budgets include pandemic relief funding through the American Rescue Plan and were compiled following a public engagement process through the Office of Community Affairs and the Office of Management and Budget.  The preliminary 2022 Operating Budget is available here and the Capital Budget is available here.The Peduto Administration will work with City Council members and other City leaders to make adjustments to the preliminary budget before Mayor Peduto formally submits his budget to City Council on Monday, November 8. Changes can be made to the budgets after that date at the discretion of City Council. | 30/9/2021 13:30:07 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Friday, October 1, 2021 | No public events scheduled. | 1/10/2021 09:09:47 |
| Sidewalk Closures Announced on Webster Avenue and Centre Avenue | PITTSBURGH, PA (October 4, 2021) The City of Pittsburgh Department of Mobility and Infrastructure advises that Webster Avenue and Centre Avenue sidewalks between Chatham Street and Washington Place will remain closed around the clock starting 7AM, Monday, October 4, 2021 through 5PM, Wednesday, November 10, 2021.The restrictions are necessary for the removal and replacement of the sidewalks along Webster Avenue and Centre Avenue as well as the placement of landscaping items associated with the “CAP Project”. Pedestrians from Webster Avenue will be detoured through Chatham Street and across Centre Avenue to Washington Place.The work is being performed by JB Fay Co., If you have any questions concerning this closure, please contact their Project Manager, Chuck Grabner, at 412-779-8354. | 4/10/2021 09:55:54 |
| Milling and Paving Resume Today | PITTSBURGH, PA (October 4, 2021) The City of Pittsburgh Department of Mobility and Infrastructure (DOMI) is continuing its 2021 milling and paving program this week.     Streets being milled include: Perry St, Webster, Theodolite Way, Yoder St, Cassina Way, Clawson St, N Homewood Ave, Renfrew, E Liberty Blvd, Winfield, Manetto Way, Ryolite Way, Clarendon, 5th Ave, Waterfront Drive, River Ave, Beechwood and Lockway East.  Streets being paved include: Wilmar St, Omaha St, Made St, Frampton Ave, Kambach St, Arlington Ave, Tustin St, Jumonville St, Perry St, Nice Way, Wilbur, E Liberty Blvd, Renfrew, Winfield, Cassina Way, Clawson St, N Homewood Ave, Manetto Way, Ryolite Way and Clarendon.  The full paving schedule for the week, including further details on streets and intersections, is available here.     This year the City is investing well over $16 million in the street resurfacing program, which supports asphalt street resurfacing, ADA curb ramp upgrades on paved streets, and repair of concrete, brick and block stone streets throughout Pittsburgh.   Approximately 34 miles of streets will be resurfaced this year. Additional mileage will be resurfaced through cooperation agreements with local public utilities. Mechanical patching will improve many miles more by addressing particular trouble spots on otherwise acceptable street corridors.        While many residents are continuing to work from home, the City will be continuing extra efforts to notify residents to move their vehicles to enable street resurfacing to proceed. Streets scheduled for resurfacing will be posted weekly on DOMI’s website and will be publicized through city social media channels. | 4/10/2021 09:29:05 |
| City of Pittsburgh Proposes Purchase of West End Senior Center Property | PITTSBURGH, PA (October 4, 2021) The City of Pittsburgh has announced the proposed purchase of 80 Wabash Street, the building that houses the West End Healthy Active Living (Senior) Center.  The City has managed the senior center in this location for 21 years through a $60,000 annual lease with Smith &amp; Bowen. The property will remain a senior center and it’s anticipated that within six years the lease payments will pay off the property. The Department of Public Works will work with the Department of Parks and Recreation, who manage the City’s senior centers, to do renovations to the building over the next several years to expand senior programming. “I’d like to thank Mayor Peduto, Chief of Staff Dan Gilman, Public Works Acting Director Chris Hornstein and Parks and Recreation Director Ross Chapman for helping this become a reality for the seniors in the West End and nearby neighborhoods. The center has become an integral part of our community, including serving as a food distribution site during the middle of the pandemic. I’d also like to thank the staff of the senior center who work tirelessly to make this senior center a home away from home for our older neighbors,” said City Council President Theresa Kail-Smith.The center serves hundreds of individuals and the weekly programming includes senior meals, instructor-led workshops, crocheting, painting, exercise activities and more. Since the beginning of the pandemic, the West End Healthy Active Living Center has served 12,620 Grab n Go meals to qualifying seniors. Through a program with Allegheny County, the center has distributed 70 free laptops and are currently hosting computer classes.  "The purchase of the West End Senior Center facility and adjacent property will afford the City an opportunity to reimagine what this center and its offerings might look like in the future,” said Louann Horan, Department of Parks and Recreation Assistant Director of Senior Programming. “Expanded programming, access to additional services and a thriving community of senior members is what we hope to realize. Acquiring this property now allows us to think more creatively and strategically about delivering improved services and support to our seniors." The City will be purchasing the property for $374,000 total and the acquisition will be presented to City Council tomorrow for their approval. | 4/10/2021 15:37:52 |
| Opportunity for Local Startups to Pilot Solutions for Local Government Open with PGH Lab 7.0 | PITTSBURGH, PA (October 4, 2021) Applications are open today for the seventh cohort of PGH Lab, a Peduto Administration program run by the Department of Innovation and Performance to create partnerships between city government and local startups.  PGH Lab connects local startup companies with the City of Pittsburgh and local authorities to test new products and services in a real world environment for up to six months. In the program, startups are encouraged to test, gain valuable market feedback and iterate. In turn, the program gives city government the opportunity to explore new ways to use technology and services to make government more efficient, transparent, sustainable and inclusive.  PGH Lab was established in 2016 and the City and partnering agencies have successfully completed six cycles engaging over 30 local startups who have provided innovative pilot projects from waste management to immigrant inclusion solutions.  In 2020, PGH Lab focused on technology solutions through an equity lens with six of the eight participating companies owned by underrepresented communities in tech including race, ethnicity, gender, LGBTQIA+ diversity and people with disabilities. Companies spent a total of 2,475 hours testing ideas and solutions with city departments and agencies. One company, pathVu, worked with six departments and agencies to deliver a complete sidewalk inventory, including ADA compliance, in Homewood and Downtown. Additional previous projects can be found here.  PGH Lab 7.0 will continue to prioritize entrepreneurs and solutions that promote equity. This round, the City is seeking solutions based on the following categories:  - Resident Engagement to improve and increase accessibility of local government to citizens with solutions that enhance communication.  - Improve Operations through collecting and analyzing city and municipal partner data with measurable results that will improve civic technology and results in the community. Pilots will also help Pittsburgh continue to develop as a “smart city” by exploring newer and smarter technologies as well as data to support economic development, quality of life and improved accessibility, especially for people with disabilities.  - Climate Change and Environment pilots to allow Pittsburgh’s continued leadership in sustainability and resiliency and work toward the Climate Action Plan, such as in food waste management, circular economy or reuse/creating new products out of waste and recycling streams.  - Addressing City Challenges to create a pilot to directly address an internal city process or operation.  - Open Call for a pilot project that does not fall under the previous categories but will benefit the City of Pittsburgh and participating agencies.  Applications are currently open until November 1 and can be found here. | 4/10/2021 13:10:09 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Monday, October 4, 2021 | Interview with Julie Mason, Sirius XMTime: 8:10 a.m. | 4/10/2021 09:27:09 |
| City Announces Upcoming Neighborhood Electronic and Household Hazardous Waste Collection Events | PITTSBURGH, PA (October 5, 2021) The City of Pittsburgh Department of Public Works Environmental Services Division announced today it will host four electronic waste and household hazardous waste neighborhood collection events on Saturdays this fall. Electronic waste and household hazardous waste includes hard to recycle materials like televisions, computers, paints, batteries, light bulbs, chemicals and more.   The events are scheduled from 9 a.m. to 1 p.m. and advance registration is required. Registration for a five minute appointment can be done online by selecting the preferred event at ecsr.net/pittsburgh-recycling or by calling the City’s 311 line.   The fall events follow four events that were held over the summer which were scheduled in coordination with City Councilmembers to identify locations for neighborhood events throughout regions of the city. The upcoming events are:  - October 16, 2021 in Shadyside at Calvary Episcopal Church, 315 Shady Avenue, Pittsburgh, PA 15206 - October 23, 2021 in Arlington at New Academy Charter School, 2500 Jonquil Way, Pittsburgh, PA 15210  - November 6, 2021 in Lawrenceville at Goodwill of Southwestern PA, 160 52nd Street, Pittsburgh, PA 15201  - November 20, 2021 in Crafton Heights at Middletown Baptist Church, 2660 Middletown Road, Pittsburgh, PA 15204  Each event can serve up to 240 appointments. Participants are required to drive to the event and must remain in their car for a contactless drop off. Social distancing and face masks are encouraged.   Fees apply to most items although the City subsidizes these fees to make them more affordable. Accepted materials and fees can be found here.   The Clean Pittsburgh Commission is sponsoring financial assistance, available to all by selecting the option to apply for financial assistance when scheduling the appointment either online or over the phone. | 5/10/2021 09:49:40 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Tuesday, October 5, 2021 | Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra and Pittsburgh Downtown Partnership Press ConferenceTime: 12:45 p.m. Closing Remarks and Panel for Marshall Plan for Middle America Kick-Off SummitTime: 3:15 p.m.Location: Virtual | 5/10/2021 09:33:20 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Wednesday, October 6, 2021 | Speaking at Daring Cities 2021, Global Virtual Forum for Urban Leaders Taking on the Climate EmergencyTime: 10 a.m.Westinghouse 175 Community Event Time: 3 p.m. | 6/10/2021 08:56:02 |
| Westinghouse Park Becomes Nationally Recognized Certified Arboretum | PITTSBURGH, PA (October 6, 2021) Mayor William Peduto joined the Department of Public Works Forestry Division, Tree Pittsburgh, Westinghouse Park 2nd Century Coalition and other community groups and members in Point Breeze North’s Westinghouse Park today to celebrate the park becoming the second certified City park arboretum on George Westinghouse’s 175th Birthday.  Westinghouse Park has been awarded a Level I accreditation by the ArbNet Arboretum Accreditation Program and the Morton Arboretum, for achieving and maintaining nationally-recognized standards of professional practices important for arboreta and botanic gardens. Westinghouse Park is now also included in the Morton Register of Arboreta, a database of the world’s arboreta and gardens dedicated to woody plants. The park’s namesake, George Westinghouse, was born 175 years ago on October 6, 1846 and revolutionized the railroad industry with his railroad air brake system that gave engineers a way to quickly and reliably stop trains. He was an inventor and visionary businessman with over 361 patents and 62 companies. In 1871, he and his wife purchased the land that would become Westinghouse Park and it was donated for public use to the City of Pittsburgh in 1918.  Westinghouse Park is listed on the National Registry of Historic Places and the community has recently completed community engagement and planning for park restoration, maintenance and improvements in anticipation of developing a master plan with the Department of City Planning next year.  The Forestry Division has placed temporary informational banners on trees throughout Westinghouse Park for the community to learn more about the native trees in the park. There will also be a community celebration in the park on Saturday, October 9, from 11 a.m. to 1 p.m., which will include a .5K community run, tree pickup sponsored by Tree Pittsburgh, a video about George Westinghouse and information from the Breathe Project and Group Against Smog and Pollution (GASP). | 6/10/2021 13:29:19 |
| Partial Closure of Bausman Street for Traffic Calming Installation | Partial Closure of Bausman Street for Traffic Calming PITTSBURGH, PA (October 6, 2021) The City of Pittsburgh’s Department of Mobility and Infrastructure (DOMI) is pleased to announce the installation of traffic calming measures on Bausman Street from Bernd Street to Brownsville Road. Data collected during the Fall of 2020 indicated that 82% of vehicles traveling on Bausman Street exceed the posted speed limit of 25 mph, with an 85th percentile speed of 35 mph. Coupled with a long crash history, this rate of speeding indicated a strong need for a traffic calming intervention.The project will include the construction of three speed humps on Bausman Street. Permanent signage and pavement markings will be installed to alert motorists of approaching speed humps. Speed humps are midblock traffic calming devices that raise the entire wheelbase of a vehicle to reduce its speed.Work is tentatively expected to begin the week of October 9-13, 2021, and is expected to last two days, weather permitting. Hours of construction will be Monday through Saturday 7:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. One lane of traffic on Bausman Street will be closed to traffic, with flaggers stationed at each intersection in order to allow local traffic access to and from their residences. Temporary no parking signage will be posted at each speed hump location.Thank you for your cooperation during this time. We hope there will be only minor inconveniences. If you have any questions or require further information regarding this closure you may contact the City’s Response Center by calling 311 or 412-255-2621.If you have questions about this project or other traffic calming projects, you may contact us by email at trafficcalming@pittsburghpa.gov. You can also learn more about DOMI’s Neighborhood Traffic Calming Program at pittsburghpa.gov/domi/traffic-calming. | 6/10/2021 14:10:21 |
| City Receives $90,000 USDA Grant to Pilot Community Composting Projects | PITTSBURGH, PA (October 7. 2021) The City of Pittsburgh has received a $90,000 grant from the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) for a Community Compost and Food Waste Reduction pilot. The grant will fund a two-year pilot project to develop and test strategies for planning and implementing municipal compost and food waste reduction plans, starting with City facilities and events.  The City’s pilot will focus on gathering research about composting in the region and implementing three composting solutions to see which are viable with city operations to later scale up - public composting at City events, a mechanical composter and traditional compost methods at City facilities.The first year of the pilot will focus on conducting exploratory research about food waste systems and composting in the greater Pittsburgh area to understand what programs, education, businesses and resources exist to manage food waste commercially and on the community level. The City will use this information to design pilot projects that complement and support the growth of food waste systems already existing in the area.  The second year of the pilot will focus on testing new composting opportunities at City facilities and events. As part of this, the City will seek a local, licensed composting business through a competitive application process to manage an organic composting booth at City-sponsored farmers’ markets, where visitors can bring their compost and vendors will receive support to transition products to “compost compatible” to host zero-waste markets.  The City will also pilot two internal composting food operations at a recreation center and a senior center, both of which host food programs, in the hopes that the projects will be able to expanded to accept community compost.  The Philips Recreation Center in Carrick will employ a traditional composting method. Traditional composting requires layering two types of organic materials (“browns” like dried yard debris, leaves, shredded cardboard; and “greens” like fruit food scraps, vegetables, grass clippings), which will break down over time into a soil-like substance used for planting. The composting pilot will also be used for education programming with youth at the center.  The Homewood Healthy Active Living (Senior) Center will pilot mechanical composting, where organic and compostable materials are put in a vessel, like a drum or silo, and spun or turned regularly to assist with the breakdown of materials to also become a soil-like substance used for planting.  Though a large-scale citywide composting program is not currently viable for the City, this pilot will be the first step in designing composting opportunities that can be expanded to the community as part of the Climate Action Plan. Composting activities will increase access to compost for agricultural producers, improve soil quality and encourage innovative food systems waste management plans that reduce and divert food waste from landfills.  The project is a collaboration between several city departments, led by the Department of City Planning’s Sustainability and Resilience Division, Department of Parks and Recreation and Office of Special Events, as well as outside agencies. | 7/10/2021 12:34:07 |
| Office of Community Health and Safety Expands Team to Enhance Efforts on Social Work, Community Engagement and Law Enforcement Assisted Diversion | Pittsburgh, PA (October 7, 2021) The City of Pittsburgh’s new Office of Community Health and Safety (OCH&amp;S) has expanded their team to help provide the Continuum of Support Program to address longstanding health, safety and justice issues in our communities. The four newly hired staff will focus on community engagement, diversion, co-response and post-engagement care.Photo: Ilan BerkmanAlexandra Abboud, MSW, LSW, joins the OCH&amp;S team as the Social Work Manager. Abboud previously served as the Victim Assistance Coordinator in the City’s Department of Public Safety, where she provided trauma-informed care, advocacy and resources for victims of crime. Her expertise includes crisis intervention, harm reduction practices, survivor supports and youth engagement. In her prior role, she assisted OCH&amp;S in developing the Continuum of Support Program. As Social Work Manager, she will supervise social work staff who will support individuals with needs outside of the traditional public safety response, work with survivors of crime and assist in the development of public safety/social worker co-response programs.  Eric Williams, MURP, serves as the Community Engagement Coordinator for OCH&amp;S following two years as a Community Liaison for the City’s Office of Community Affairs, where he presented citywide services and events to community organizations. Prior to joining the City, Williams was a Community Development Consultant for Peace Corps in Albania, where he established a food bank to address food insecurity for one thousand residents. Williams will bring his community engagement expertise to work closely with community members, groups and faith-based organizations in Pittsburgh to ensure that community members are partners in the development of OCH&amp;S programs and services.  Camila Alarcon-Chelecki, MSPPM, comes to OCH&amp;S as the Law Enforcement Assisted Diversion (LEAD) Project Coordinator. Alarcon-Chelecki has worked as a political consultant and project design manager. She also served as Director of Development for Guatemala Visible, working with youth throughout South America to support thriving communities and prevent cartel-related violence through educational and economic opportunities. As LEAD Project Coordinator, Alarcon-Chelecki will design, implement and manage LEAD throughout the City of Pittsburgh in collaboration with the Congress of Neighboring Communities (CONNECT), community-based providers, Pittsburgh Bureau of Police, Allegheny County leadership and community members.  Photo: Ilan BerkmanMalaysia Smith is the LEAD Community Engagement Coordinator. Smith comes to OCH&amp;S from the Housing Authority of the City of Pittsburgh, where she was a portability specialist providing case management, client interaction and advocacy for residents. Smith previously worked as a communications coordinator for all projects at Just Harvest, where she established and hosted educational programs, stakeholder and public meetings and developed community outreach plans. As the LEAD Community Engagement Coordinator, Smith will work closely with CONNECT, residents, officers and community organizations to integrate feedback into program planning and will promote partnerships between the community and OCH&amp;S.  The four new staff members join the existing team which includes OCH&amp;S Manager Laura Drogowski; Continuum of Support Program Manager Dr. Sheila Roth, PhD, MSW, LCSW, EMT; Overdose Prevention Coordinator Joshua Schneider, EMT; Operations Administrator Brennan Coleman; and master-level social work interns and Coro Pittsburgh fellows. More information about the OCH&amp;S team is available here.  The Office of Community Health &amp; Safety is continuing to expand its workforce to better address the gaps in public safety, translational public health and mental and behavioral health services across the City of Pittsburgh. See new opportunities, like Community Social Worker openings, here. | 7/10/2021 14:18:37 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Thursday, October 7, 2021 | The Adventures of Pittsburgh Virtual Book Event with Author Erica PullenTime: 4:30 | 7/10/2021 08:57:35 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Friday, October 8, 2021 | ACTION-Housing and YMCA Ribbon Cutting for Centre Avenue YMCATime: 10:00 a.m. | 8/10/2021 09:29:10 |
| Director of Parks and Recreation to Leave City to Join Pittsburgh Parks Conservancy | PITTSBURGH, PA (October 8, 2021) Mayor William Peduto announced today that Ross Chapman, the Director of the Department of Parks and Recreation (Citiparks), will be leaving his role with the City.  “Ross Chapman is a passionate, caring and effective leader who uses data, equity and residents’ personal experiences to thoughtfully inform decisions,” said Mayor Peduto. “The Citiparks team has been incredibly effective in adapting to the post-pandemic world because of his leadership of being open to new ideas, new possibilities and effective solutions. He has reinforced that public park programming is important because it is for all. I wish him the very best in his new role with our partners at the Pittsburgh Parks Conservancy, where I know he will continue to advocate for quality, equitable public opportunities.”   Director Chapman started working for the City of Pittsburgh in 2010 in the Department of Human Resources and Civil Service as a Program Supervisor then Assistant Director, where he focused on workforce development partnerships, including Learn and Earn Summer Youth Employment Program and workforce services for city youth to engage in job skills training. He also led collaboration with the City’s Neighborhood Employment Center to provide employment services to residents.  Mayor Peduto promoted Director Chapman to Deputy Director of the Department of Parks and Recreation in 2017 and Director in 2018. Under his leadership, Citiparks’ staff, programs, services, operations and projects have flourished and provided service to over 100,000 residents annually. Just a few of his countless accomplishments include:  - Distributed over 1 million free meals to eligible children and seniors since the start of the COVID-19 pandemic  - Offered virtual and home-based technology, education, art and enrichment programs and activities for children and families during the COVID-19 pandemic, including Citiparks’ own YouTube channel- Launched and expanded the Rec2Tech program for city youth to learn critical technology skills, capturing nearly $700K in grant funding and securing mobile laptops and related tech equipment for Rec2Tech coding, AI, STEM/STEAM and more youth tech programs  - Managed over $10 million across operating, capital and trust fund supported budgets and worked with the Department of Public Works to deliver large-scale investments in senior and recreation centers, parks, spray parks and swimming pools, including:   - New $1.2 million Paulson Spray Park and Playground in Lincoln-Lemington   - New Morningside Healthy Active Living (Senior) Center in partnership with CMS Housing/Rodriguez Associates Inc.    - Upgraded WiFi connectivity at over a dozen community recreation and senior centers     - Pickleball and basketball courts citywide    - Secured over $250,000 in state and county grant funding to support senior centers and related programs- Created partnerships with over 25 organizations throughout the city to engage youth, seniors and other residents in wellness, art, cultural, physical activity, recreation, education and more programs - Welcomed and introduced United States Vice President Kamala Harris at the Brookline Recreation Center in support of the Federal Government's expanded Childcare Tax Credit program Director Chapman also advocated for increased funding for the ongoing improvement of community recreation centers, senior centers, swimming pools and other Citiparks programmed assets, which will see a projected $16 million in funding in 2022.  Director Chapman will be leaving to serve as the Director of Park Operations and Civic Partnerships with the Pittsburgh Parks Conservancy. The position is newly created to support the mission, vision and overall advancement of the nonprofit's work. This role provides strategic leadership on all matters related to creating an excellent, equitable, and inclusive park system, which is a critical component to the Conservancy's future work and the betterment of Pittsburgh's cherished parks. His final day with the City will be on November 1, 2021. | 8/10/2021 13:32:24 |
| Milling and Paving Resume Monday | PITTSBURGH, PA (October 8, 2021) The City of Pittsburgh Department of Mobility and Infrastructure (DOMI) is continuing its 2021 milling and paving program next week.    Streets being milled include: 44th St, Sapphire Way, Calvin, Siebert, Garden Way, Henderson St, Belleau St, Letsche St, Mercy St, Lockway East, Ridge Ave, Massachusetts Ave, Brandon Rd, Roosevelt Ave, Kearns Ave, Kemp St, New York St, Adolph St, Forbes Ave, Centre Ave, Maddock Pl, Gilboa Way, Oakrdige St, Broadway Ave, Ingomar St, Fitch Way, Wabash St, Homestead, Exposition Way and Nantasket St.Streets being paved include: Webster, Wilmar St, Omaha St, Kohlmeyers Ln, River Ave, 19 Waterfront Dr, 44th St, Sapphire Way, Calvin, Siebert, Garden Way, 3 Rivers Heritage Trail, Lockway East, Ridge Ave, Centre Ave, Maddock Pl, Forbes Ave, Hamilton Ave, Meade St, Cassina Way, Wabash St, Ryolite Way, Clarendon and Beechwood. The full paving schedule for the week, including further details on streets and intersections, is available here. Some milling and paving work next week will require overnight work as well as full or partial road closures, which are indicated on the online paving schedule. Partially closed roads will have a flagger or police officer alternating traffic. This year the City is investing well over $16 million in the street resurfacing program, which supports asphalt street resurfacing, ADA curb ramp upgrades on paved streets, and repair of concrete, brick and block stone streets throughout Pittsburgh.Approximately 34 miles of streets will be resurfaced this year. Additional mileage will be resurfaced through cooperation agreements with local public utilities. Mechanical patching will improve many miles more by addressing particular trouble spots on otherwise acceptable street corridors. While many residents are continuing to work from home, the City will be continuing extra efforts to notify residents to move their vehicles to enable street resurfacing to proceed. Streets scheduled for resurfacing will be posted weekly on DOMI’s website and will be publicized through city social media channels. | 8/10/2021 13:10:45 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Monday, October 11, 2021 | Interview with World Affairs Radio PodcastTime: 11 a.m.Pittsburgh Bureau of Police Promotion CeremonyTime: 2 p.m. | 11/10/2021 09:33:10 |
| Salem's Market Selected to Open a Grocery Store in Hill District's Centre Heldman Plaza | PITTSBURGH, PA (October 11, 2021) Mayor William Peduto has announced that the Urban Redevelopment Authority of Pittsburgh (URA) will enter lease negotiations with locally-owned and family-run Salem’s Market &amp; Grill, LLC to open a grocery store in the former SHOP ‘n SAVE site at the Centre Heldman Plaza in the Hill District. The URA selected Salem’s following a community process coordinated with City Councilman R. Daniel Lavelle and the Hill Community Development Corporation (CDC). “I am grateful to all those who participated in the thorough process with the Hill community to identify a grocery store partner who will serve the needs of the community and be a hub tenant in the Centre Heldman Plaza and Centre Avenue business district,” said Mayor Peduto. “Salem’s has a proven record for providing high quality food and products and supporting our minority communities. We look forward to working with them on this expansion project.”  Interested grocery stores and markets submitted applications to be considered to fill the vacant grocery store site. Four finalist applicants presented to the community last month as part of the Hill CDC’s Development Review Panel, where residents shared their views and preferences by filling out an online scorecard for each candidate.  Based on the scorecards, the URA announced this week that they have selected Salem’s, who received the highest rating from the local community. Salem's Market &amp; Grill has been a locally-run minority-owned business for over 40 years, with their original store located on Penn Avenue in the Strip District. Their application highlighted how they could collaborate with and contribute to the Hill District community after reviewing the Greater Hill District Master Plan and Centre Avenue Redevelopment and Design Plan. “Salem's Market locating to the Hill District is a tremendous win both for Salem's and the Hill District community,” said Councilman Lavelle. “It affords Salem's the ability to grow and expand, while providing the community with a much-needed grocery store and restaurant. What's more, given Salem's well established customer base, the new grocery store and restaurant will bring considerable foot traffic to Centre Avenue, which will help support efforts underway to build back Centre Avenue as a business corridor.” Some of the benefits they believe that they can bring to complement the neighborhood include: - Stocking fresh produce, meat, seafood, deli, snacks, drinks, international foods, household items, wholesale items, baby and infant care products, pet food and supplies, pharmacy and beauty products, prepared foods and more - Hosting a career fair to hire the 50-75 person staff in the neighborhood that includes a butcher and chef training program - Dedicating retail space for products from local vendors  - Hiring local trade contractors and minority-owned business enterprises (MBEs) for construction  - Partnering with local community organizations to develop and promote entrepreneurial programming that helps start, support and grow local businesses - Attracting shoppers from across the region to visit the Centre Avenue business district  “The URA purchased the Centre Heldman Plaza to ensure there is a transparent conversation about which grocery store would best fit the needs of the Hill District community,” said URA Deputy Executive Director Diamonte Walker. “We want to thank Mayor Peduto, Councilman Lavelle and the Hill CDC for committing to a community-centered process that continues our recent record of revitalizing the Hill District with local, minority-owned businesses. We look forward to entering into good-faith lease negotiations with Salem’s.”   The City, URA and Councilman Lavelle have worked closely with the Hill community to attract community-driven tenants to the Centre Heldman Plaza, including CARES CommuniTEA Café, Catapult Minority Business Incubator and G’s Closet. Additional information about the plaza can be found here. | 11/10/2021 12:52:16 |
| URA Closes on $500,000 Loan to Help Bring Music Back to James Street in East Allegheny Neighborhood | PITTSBURGH, PA (October 11, 2021) The Urban Redevelopment Authority of Pittsburgh (URA) has closed on a $500,000 loan to 422 Foreland LLC, the owner of the former James Street Gastropub and Speakeasy at the corner of Foreland and James Streets in the East Allegheny neighborhood. They purchased the property in 2018 and are investing over $5 million total to revitalize the property and the loan from the URA’s Pittsburgh Business Fund will assist in funding gaps stemming from the pandemic.  The 123 year-old, 18,700 square foot building formerly served as a neighborhood meeting place as well as drew music lovers from all over to enjoy the historic prohibition-era structure and live jazz and other music. The renovation will create a mixed-used commercial building including a restaurant, office space, apartment and the return of jazz.“This is a historic property that transformed into a place where music lovers can come to hear good live music and build community,” said Mayor William Peduto. “When James Street closed its doors, the community was clear that they wanted music to come back and we promised we’d make that happen. I’d like to thank Jonathan Iams and his team and the URA for helping to fulfill that promise and bring jazz back to James and Foreland.” The renovations are currently underway and the owner, Jonathan Iams, anticipates occupancy in February 2022. They have worked closely with the Northside Leadership Conference and East Allegheny Community Council and the project intends to bring professional and hospitality jobs, restore the historic building to a vibrant community asset and bring community life back to the building.  ”The James Street Tavern has been the home of jazz in Pittsburgh for more than half a century,” said owner Jonathan Iams. “I am excited to see the building thrive again as a place for the community to enjoy great food, music and art in an architecturally significant building.” The URA also assisted the new owners in applying for Enterprise Zone (EZ) Tax Credits through the state, an incentive program that provides tax credits to businesses investing in real property improvements such as rehab, expansion or physical improvements to buildings or land resulting in jobs created in designated areas. Architectural rending of building addition from James Street, provided by 422 Foreland LLC. | 11/10/2021 11:10:28 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Tuesday, October 12, 2021 | Speaking at Standing FIRM Awards LuncheonTime: 12:00 p.m. | 12/10/2021 09:20:29 |
| URA to Sell Beechview Property to Casa San Jose for a Community Revitalization Project to Serve Residents | PITTSBURGH, PA (October 12, 2021) The Urban Redevelopment Authority of Pittsburgh (URA) Board of Directors will vote this week on a resolution to authorize entering an option agreement for the sale of 1602-1606 Broadway Avenue in Beechview to Casa San José, a local organization that provides support and resources for Latinx immigrants and community members in Pittsburgh.  1602-1606 Broadway Avenue, located in the Broadway Avenue business district, has stood vacant and the community has advocated for its revitalization. Casa San José intends to redevelop the property, using the top floors for their offices and the lower level for a community gathering space and programming for all ages.  "The growing Hispanic community is so grateful for the dedication that Mayor Peduto has and continues to display to our community,” said Monica Ruiz, Executive Director of Casa San José. “He has been a champion on immigrant rights and inclusion. This building is just one additional way he has proven his commitment to our communities.”  Casa San José's bilingual staff offer critical support to Latinx and other community residents including access to Immigrant Services and Connections (ISAC) social services, emergency response, advocacy, ESL classes, mental health programs, nutrition programs, youth organizations, activities, camps, academic support and more. Casa San José has partnered with the City on several initiatives to support the immigrant community citywide, including the disbursement of funding to residents who did not receive federal stimulus payments.  Initial plans for the redevelopment include updating the building with an elevator, stair tower and other ADA-compliant improvements. The City of Pittsburgh has allocated $1 million of American Rescue Plan funding through the URA for the project and Casa San José expects to raise the additional funding.  If approved, the URA would sell the property to Casa San José for $1 plus costs. | 12/10/2021 09:50:44 |
| URA Awards Seven Neighborhood Initiative Fund Projects for Community-Driven Projects | PITTSBURGH, PA (October 12, 2021) Mayor William Peduto announced that the Urban Redevelopment Authority of Pittsburgh (URA) has selected seven community-driven projects to receive Neighborhood Initiative Fund (NIF) grants for a total of $500,000 of investment citywide. Five of the awarded projects are located in Avenues of Hope neighborhoods.
The NIF program makes it easier for City of Pittsburgh communities to access funding by providing grants for neighborhood-driven projects and programs to help unlock economic and placemaking potential and support vision-to-action community investment strategies that build an equitable Pittsburgh. This round of NIF focused on neighborhood business district improvements, with priority for projects in Avenues of Hope corridors.
The following projects will receive funding:
|     |     |     |     |     |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| GROUP | PROJECT | NEIGHBORHOOD | AVES OF HOPE? | AMOUNT |
| Jasmine Nyree | Jasmine Nyree Community Access Project | Sheraden | Yes | $100,000 |
| Mount Washington CDC | MWBE Stage II Incubator in Mount Washington | Mount Washington | No | $30,000 |
| OBID | Pods of Opportunity | Central Oakland | No | $40,000 |
| S Hilltop Men’s Group | Beltzhoover Institute for Arts and Sciences | Beltzhoover | Yes | $100,000 |
| Neighborhood Allies | Big Tom’s | Hill District | Yes | $100,000 |
| Larimer Consensus Group with Larimer LLC | Façade Restoration at 523-527 Larimer | Larimer | Yes | $100,000 |
| Perry Hilltop Citizens Council | 2115 Perrysville Renovation | Perry Hilltop/Perry South | Yes | $30,000 |
“The NIF is a program that allows the City and URA to invest in the community’s vision by putting community organizations in control of development of neighborhood business districts based on their needs,” said Mayor Peduto. “We are proud to further invest in our neighborhoods, particularly in Avenues of Hope corridors to support the rebuilding of Pittsburgh’s Black main streets.”
Avenues of Hope is an initiative of the Peduto Administration and URA. It is a place-based, people-first approach that focuses on revitalizing seven major business corridors in Black and diverse neighborhoods through targeted investment in residents, businesses, entrepreneurs and housing to support inclusive growth of the neighborhoods. | 12/10/2021 14:32:59 |
| 2021 City of Pittsburgh Halloween Trick-or-Treating Times Announced | PITTSBURGH, PA (October 12, 2021) The City of Pittsburgh has announced trick-or-treating will be Sunday, October 31 from 5-7 p.m. and urges all residents to follow safety protocols and guidelines issued by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Residents are urged to: - Avoid direct contact with others who do not live with you.- Make a cloth mask part of your costume, but do not substitute a costume mask for a cloth mask. - Bring hand sanitizer to use throughout trick-or-treating and wash your hands before eating any treats.- Follow distancing on sidewalks and when approaching homes. Stay at least 6 feet away from others outside of your household.- Wear reflective clothing and bring flashlights for visibility while trick-or-treating.As with each year, motorists are asked to be especially vigilant on Halloween night, decrease speeds and increase awareness of trick-or-treating children and families. | 12/10/2021 09:29:34 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Wednesday, October 13, 2021 | Larimer Affordable Town Homes Phase 1 GroundbreakingTime: 1 p.m. | 13/10/2021 08:36:06 |
| Pittsburgh Awarded Three Low-Income Housing Tax Credits to Bring Over 112 Affordable Housing Units to Allentown, Fairywood and Hill District | PITTSBURGH, PA (October 14, 2021) Governor Tom Wolf and the Pennsylvania Housing Finance Agency board announced today that three City of Pittsburgh affordable housing developments will be receiving tax credits this year.  The Low-Income Housing Tax Credit (LIHTC) program is a critical resource to support the development and rehabilitation of affordable housing to provide low-income families with quality housing at lower rents. LIHTC provides an annual tax credit for owners of affordable rental properties for their first 10 years of operation and properties must be affordable for at least 30 years. Developers use the tax credits to raise equity from investors to finance the project.  These three additional tax credit awards continue a record run of LIHTC allocations for the city after Mayor William Peduto met with Governor Wolf to advocate an increase in awards to Pittsburgh.  The projects awarded today were supported by over $1.5 million in preliminary commitments from the Urban Redevelopment Authority of Pittsburgh (URA) to provide gap funding as part of their applications.  "Providing high quality affordable housing has been a top priority of my administration and we are grateful to Governor Wolf and our partners in Harrisburg for helping to bring additional tax credits to Pittsburgh,” said Mayor Peduto. “Collaboration of partners from all sectors is critical to meet the need for housing in our city and I thank the URA and development partners for creating an additional 112 affordable units for people and families.” The redevelopment projects receiving the credits are:  - Cedarwood Homes in Fairywood by Cedarwood Homes, LLC and Tryko Partners for the new construction of 46 mixed income, garden style apartments in the Fairywood neighborhood with senior occupancy. (total 46 units; 39 affordable) - Letsche School and Townhomes by Catalyst Communities, LLC for the adaptive reuse of a historic school building and new construction of four adjacent townhomes for 46 mixed income units in the Hill District. (total 46 units; 42 affordable) - Hilltop Scattered Site by Gatesburg Road Development and the Hilltop Alliance for the new construction of 31 scattered site, lease-to-own units through the acquisition and redevelopment of 33 vacant lots or abandoned homes in the Allentown neighborhood. (total 31 units, all affordable) For information on housing resources in the City of Pittsburgh, please visit the Housing Assistance Resource Portal (HARP). | 14/10/2021 13:35:54 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Thursday, October 14, 2021 | Airport Terminal GroundbreakingTime: 2:00 p.m. | 14/10/2021 09:20:53 |
| City Seeking Local Landcare Businesses to Manage City-Owned Properties to Remediate Neighborhood Blight | PITTSBURGH, PA (October 15, 2021) The City of Pittsburgh is seeking qualified land care and maintenance businesses to submit applications to assist in the year-round land maintenance of city-owned properties and lots. The City is looking to partner with locally-owned businesses to provide land care to remediate blight in neighborhoods citywide.  Outside of city parks maintenance, the City contracts land maintenance work to outside vendors and developed this program to invest money into community-based businesses to provide solutions for blighted city-owned properties at a competitive pay rate of $25 per hour.  The program would assign over 4,400 properties that have been divided geographically into “bundles” of around 200 properties each to multiple businesses. Upon application, businesses can indicate their preferred geographic bundles and how many bundles they are able to manage. Bundles will be assigned on a first-come, first-serve basis.   Qualified vendors will be responsible for all properties in their assigned bundle(s) and are expected to visit each property at least monthly throughout the year to cut grass, remove litter, weed perimeters, trim tree branches and remove debris. Additional visits may be requested by the City based on community concerns or 311 requests about specific properties.  The land maintenance program is an initiative of the Office of Mayor William Peduto and the Department of Finance. Vendors will regularly report their progress to the Department of Finance.  Starting today, applications are being accepted here on a rolling basis on Beacon, the City’s online procurement platform.  Interested businesses are invited to attend one of three informational meeting to learn more about the program before applying, hosted by the Office of Community Affairs and the Office of Management and Budget Procurement Division. Registration is required and the meetings will be held as follows:  Land Maintenance RFQ Pre-Bid Meeting #1  (Virtual)Date: Tuesday, October 19th   Time: 6:00 PM   Location: ZOOM (virtual)   Register here: https://forms.gle/Qzo3xABSXDf6YL7i7Land Maintenance RFQ Pre-Bid Meeting #2 (In-Person)Wednesday, October 20th   2:00 PM   City-County Building Register here: https://forms.gle/cgxh9GNAufuYK35a8Land Maintenance RFQ Pre-Bid Meeting #3  (In-Person)Thursday, October 28th   6:00 PM   City County Building   Register here: https://forms.gle/CmHjtS95LwJ7utw87 | 15/10/2021 10:01:13 |
| Traffic Calming Installation Coming to East Hills Drive and Wilner Drive | PITTSBURGH, PA (October 15, 2021) The City of Pittsburgh’s Department of Mobility and Infrastructure (DOMI) is pleased to announce the installation of traffic calming measures on East Hills Drive between Foch Way and Calistoga Place and on Wilner Drive from East Hills Drive to Bracey Drive in the city's East Hills neighborhood. Data collected during the Spring of 2021 indicated that 54% of vehicles traveling on East Hills Drive exceeded the posted speed limit of 25 mph, with an 85th percentile speed of 33 mph. 61% of vehicles traveling on Wilner Drive exceed the posted speed limit of 25 mph, with an 85th percentile speed of 33 mph. Coupled with a long crash history, this rate of speeding indicated a strong need for traffic calming intervention.The project will include the construction of two speed humps on East Hills Drive and two speed humps on Wilner Drive. Permanent signage and pavement markings will be installed to alert motorists of approaching speed humps. Speed humps are midblock traffic calming devices that raise the entire wheelbase of a vehicle to reduce its speed.Work is tentatively expected to begin the week of October 16-22, 2021, and is expected to last two days, weather permitting. Hours of construction will be Monday through Saturday 7:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. One lane of traffic on East Hills Drive and Wilner Drive will be closed to traffic, with flaggers stationed at each intersection in order to allow local traffic access to and from their residences. Temporary no parking signage will be posted at each speed hump location.Thank you for your cooperation during this time and we hope there will be only minor inconveniences. If you have any questions or require further information regarding this closure you may contact the City’s Response Center by calling 311 or 412-255-2621. You can also learn more about DOMI’s Neighborhood Traffic Calming Program at www.pittsburghpa.gov/domi/traffic-calming. | 15/10/2021 11:00:53 |
| Milling and Paving Resume Monday | PITTSBURGH, PA (October 15, 2021) The City of Pittsburgh Department of Mobility and Infrastructure (DOMI) is continuing its 2021 milling and paving program next week.     Streets being milled include: New York St, Adolph St, Oakridge St, Fitch Way, Ingomar St, Herschel St, Weaver St, Gilboa Way, Oakwood St, Collier St, Sterrett St and Wabash Street. Streets being paved include: Wilmar St, Orlena Way, Lowell, Manetto Way, Sapphire Way, Theodolite Way, Yoder St, Exposition Way, Nantasket St, Ryolite Way, Clarendon, Cassina Way, N Homewood Ave, Hamilton Ave, Meade St, Frampton Ave, Adolph St, New York St, Ingomar St, Henderson St, Belleau St, Letsche St, Mercy St, Herschel St, Lockway East and Wabash St.  The full paving schedule for the week, including further details on streets and intersections, is available here. Some milling and paving work next week will require night work, which is indicated on the online paving schedule.  This year the City is investing well over $16 million in the street resurfacing program, which supports asphalt street resurfacing, ADA curb ramp upgrades on paved streets, and repair of concrete, brick and block stone streets throughout Pittsburgh. Approximately 34 miles of streets will be resurfaced this year. Additional mileage will be resurfaced through cooperation agreements with local public utilities. Mechanical patching will improve many miles more by addressing particular trouble spots on otherwise acceptable street corridors.  While many residents are continuing to work from home, the City will be continuing extra efforts to notify residents to move their vehicles to enable street resurfacing to proceed. Streets scheduled for resurfacing will be posted weekly on DOMI’s website and will be publicized through city social media channels. | 15/10/2021 13:18:40 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Friday, October 15, 2021 | No public events scheduled. | 15/10/2021 09:28:11 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Monday, October 18, 2021 | No public events scheduled | 18/10/2021 09:17:16 |
| Traffic Circles Construction to Begin on North Euclid | PITTSBURGH, PA (October 18, 2021) The City of Pittsburgh’s Department of Mobility and Infrastructure (DOMI) will complete three neighborhood traffic circles along North Euclid Avenue, starting the week of October 18, 2021. Construction is anticipated to last one week, weather permitting. Traffic will not be detoured. Flaggers will allow drivers to navigate through the construction zones safely.The traffic circles will complete the “North Euclid Neighborway” project, helping to turn the street, an important link between East Liberty and Highland Park, into a shared, low volume, low speed, traffic-calmed street where vulnerable bicycles can safely travel together with vehicles. Planning and outreach for this project occurred primarily during 2020 and the first four circles in the corridor were installed in spring 2021. The delay of the construction of the last three circles was the result of coordination with PWSA’s planned upgrades on the street; these coordination concerns have since been resolved.These new circles will be built on North Euclid at the intersections of Wellesley Avenue, Jackson Street and Hayes Street. These three circles will complete the corridor, supplementing the four concrete circles at the North Euclid Avenue intersections of Hampton Street, Elgin Street, Callowhill Street and Rippey Street installed at the beginning of the construction season.Neighborhood traffic circles fit within the existing curb line of an intersection, do not require any additional property, do not require any parking removal, meet ADA accessibility standards and have mountable curbs to enable larger vehicles such as buses or emergency vehicles to traverse them even while subtly diverting the path of travel of the more common passenger vehicle.Thank you for your cooperation during this time. We hope there will be only minor inconveniences. If you have any questions or require further information regarding this closure you may contact the City’s Response Center by calling 311 or 412-255-2621.If you have questions about this project or other DOMI Move Forward bike projects, you may contact us by email at moveforward@gmail.com. You can also learn more about DOMI’s Move Forward Program at https://www.moveforwardpgh.org and DOMI’s Bike+ plan at https://www.pittsburghpa.gov/domi/bikeplan. | 18/10/2021 09:23:38 |
| City Financial Practices Create Fiscal Resilience | PITTSBURGH, PA (October 18, 2021) The Office of Mayor William Peduto and Office of Management and Budget have released financial data about the resilient financial cash reserve practices of the administration that have led to enhanced fiscal management and reliability for the City, especially in the face of the pandemic, that will be needed to guide the City’s continued recovery.
Mayor Peduto has long been a leading voice for financial management improvements for the City. When he served as City Councilman, he recognized that the City was in financial distress and proposed the City enter Act 47 state financial oversight, but at that time he could not get anyone to second his proposal. In 2004, Mayor Peduto successfully sponsored the legislation for the City to enter Act 47, which led to controls on spending, increased taxes and the adoption of fiscal reforms.
Mayor Peduto helped to write all three Act 47 financial recovery plans in 2004, 2009 and 2014, including when he served as City Council Finance Committee Chair. In addition, he institutionalized Act 47 financial practices by introducing and passing fiscal City Code and ordinance reforms to ensure that the City continues to follow and strengthen its responsible financial practices to avoid financial distress in the future following the City’s exit from Act 47 in February 2018.
Since 2014, Mayor Peduto has focused on strengthening the City’s cash reserves in order to be prepared for financial shocks, while still budgeting for record investments in community-based capital projects and infrastructure.
Responsible financial management of the cash reserves, sometimes called a “rainy day fund," allowed the City to sustain the financial disruption of the pandemic without having to lay off employees who provide essential public services. When there are additional monies in the city’s operating budget, some of that money is transferred to the capital budget for critical infrastructure and asset projects and the rest is put into the reserves at the end of each fiscal year.
The following data reflects the total reserve funds for the past seven years. Decreases in year-to-year funding are attributed to increased funds being transferred to important capital projects and investments. For example, the decrease from 2017 to 2018 includes the city’s establishment of the Housing Opportunity Fund which saw a $10 million transfer to the fund.
|     |     |
| --- | --- |
| Fiscal Year | Ending Fund Balance |
| 2014 | $58,590,162.42 |
| 2015 | $56,113,162.33 |
| 2016 | $78,828,682.90 |
| 2017 | $97,243,093.55 |
| 2018 | $96,146,658.87 |
| 2019 | $120,307,451.04 |
| 2020 | $75,645,904.26 |
| 2021* | $75,424,703.00 |
“Thanks to our ability to have funding in our reserves, we were able to sustain city operations throughout the pandemic until we received the federal relief that I advocated for with the American Rescue Plan so that we didn’t lose critical city services that our neighbors depend on. It was the rainy day that we were prepared for,” said Mayor Peduto. “Our long-term financial recovery will continue to feel the stresses of the pandemic over the next few years and our recovery depends on rebuilding the cash reserves over that time to be a resilient city that will be prepared to face whatever the next challenge will be.”
The current five-year financial forecasts suggest that the financial strains of the pandemic will continue to threaten City budgets. Through Mayor Peduto’s planning and City Council’s leadership, the American Rescue Plan funding for city services and personnel will support City budgets until 2023. To continue a strong financial position, the City must control spending while also focusing on adding jobs in Pittsburgh’s new economy and growing residents with additional housing stock. Without spending controls and meaningful revenue growth, the City will again find itself in financial hardship.
 | 18/10/2021 15:09:54 |
| Mayor William Peduto Issues Statement on Congressman Mike Doyle's Announcement | PITTSBURGH, PA (October 18, 2021) Mayor William Peduto issued the following statement today in response to U.S. Congressman Mike Doyle's announcement he will not be seeking re-election:“Congressman Mike Doyle has been a model of public service since he took office in 1995. Throughout his long and distinguished career, he has led our region through financial hardship, pivoting economies, new technologies and a global pandemic. He has always put the people of Pittsburgh first and ensured that our residents and neighborhoods had the federal support they needed for investments, improvements and services. He has been a leader, an advocate and a friend to all of our communities as well as to his colleagues on both sides of the aisle in Washington, D.C.  Congressman Doyle, thank you for using your compassion, skills, talent and diplomacy to make Pittsburgh a better place now and in the future.” | 18/10/2021 16:27:16 |
| City to Free Up Public Safety Facilities for Community Redevelopment Through Lease of Steamfitters Local Union 449 Building | PITTSBURGH, PA (October 19, 2021) Mayor William Peduto introduced legislation to City Council today to lease the former Steamfitters Local Union 449 at 1517 Woodruff Street. The City intends to use this facility to consolidate police operations currently housed in a former fire station in Troy Hill, a former school in Elliott, a former fire station in the Hill District and replace an expiring lease for warehouse storage in the North Side.  Moving multiple operations into one location not only improves efficiency and saves money, but also provides the City the opportunity to get properties back on the tax rolls, end existing leases and redevelop properties to create and enhance neighborhood assets in partnership with the community. For example, the City plans to redevelop Thaddeus Stevens School in Elliott into a community recreation center for youth and will work with the Troy Hill community to determine how market the old fire station in their business district for investment and redevelopment.“I’d like to thank Mayor Peduto, Chief of Staff Gilman, Director Hissrich and Chief Schubert for helping to create an opportunity for our communities to reclaim and redevelop city-owned buildings in our neighborhoods to meet the needs of the residents. Our children and families in Elliott and the surrounding communities are looking forward to having a recreation center,” said City Council President Theresa Kail-Smith. “It’s also an opportunity to streamline specialty police operations under one roof and we are grateful to welcome this addition to District 2.” | 19/10/2021 14:25:09 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Tuesday, October 19, 2021 | Speaking at Lyndon B. John School of Public Affairs Urban Lab InitiativeTime: 1 p.m.Speaking at NationSwell: Building Pubic Trust in A.I.: Empowering CommunitiesTime: 4 p.m. | 19/10/2021 09:34:12 |
| Pittsburgh Continues to Receive Strong Credit Ratings Due to Financial Practices | PITTSBURGH, PA (October 19, 2021) The Office of Mayor William Peduto and the Office of Management and Budget today released information about the improved strength of the City’s bond credit rating. The City’s fiscal planning and resiliency strategy over the past seven years turned a structurally deficient budget into a model of fiscal strength, including strong credit ratings that allow the City to borrow capital budget funds at a better rate to save taxpayers money.
“Just like individuals, having a good credit score can help get better rates or higher limits for cities to issue bonds for critical infrastructure improvements,” Mayor Peduto said. “Pittsburgh has worked hard over the past several years to improve its credit ratings and outlooks so that we can continue to put money into reserves, invest in our pension fund and also pursue projects that are important to maintain and support our city and our communities.”
Mayor Peduto has long lead efforts to improve financial management for the City, including during his time on City Council. His continued advocacy included sponsoring legislation for the City to enter Act 47 state oversight, helping to write all three Act 47 recovery plans and ensuring continued fiscal stability and growth through codifying financial reforms. His legacy of financial vitality practices have ensured the City has avoided financial distress after exiting Act 47 and that the City’s bond credit ratings have strengthened.
The success of the city’s financial management has been recognized by independent financial rating agencies as the City’s ratings have improved over the past seven years. In 2021, S&amp;P Global Ratings awarded Pittsburgh strong creditworthiness despite the pandemic:
|     |     |     |
| --- | --- | --- |
| S&amp;P Credit Rating History |
| Issuance/Year | Credit Rating | Outlook |
| 2012 Series A/B | BBB | Stable |
| Series 2014 | AA | Stable |
| 2014 Refunding Series A/B | A+ | Stable |
| Series 2017 | A+ | Stable |
| Series 2019 | AA- | Stable |
| Series 2020 | AA- | Stable |
| 2020 Refunding Series A/B | AA- | Stable |
| Series 2021 | AA- | Stable |
Bond rating agencies have praised the City’s management of its budget before and during the COVID-19 pandemic. A credit rating of “A” indicates above-average creditworthiness relative to other U.S. municipal or tax-exempt issuers or issues, while “AA” indicates very strong creditworthiness.
According to S&amp;P’s quality levels, the City of Pittsburgh was upgraded, and since maintained, from upper medium grade to high quality in 2017, indicating that the financial safeguards and practices implemented by the Peduto Administration improved and have continued to improve the financial strength of the City.
The ratings provided by Fitch Credit Rating, another independent financial rating agency, reflect the increased strength of the City’s increased creditworthiness, having upgraded the City from an upper medium grade rating to high quality credit rating between 2012 and 2021.
|     |     |     |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Fitch Credit Rating History |
| Issuance | Credit Rating | Outlook |
| Series 2012 | A | Stable |
| Series 2020 | AA- | Positive |
| 2020 Refunding Series A/B | AA- | Negative |
| Series 2021 | AA- | Negative |
Though Fitch Credit Rating recognizes the current strength of the City’s credit rating, a negative outlook was issued for 2020 and 2021 as five-year financial forecasts suggest that the financial strains of the pandemic will continue to threaten municipal budgets. Mayor Peduto’s financial planning and City Council’s leadership for American Rescue Plan funding will support the predicted deficits for city services and personnel until 2023. To continue a strong financial position, the City must control spending while also focusing on adding jobs to Pittsburgh’s new economy and growing residents with additional housing stock. Without spending controls and meaningful revenue growth, the City will again find itself in financial hardship.
The City requires credit reports from two agencies in order to pursue bond issuance. A third independent agency, Moody’s, has consistently issued the City upper medium grade ratings in 2014, 2017 and 2019, but has not issued Pittsburgh a recent credit rating. | 19/10/2021 13:15:46 |
| DOMI Receives Over $560,000 for Street Safety Improvement Projects | PITTSBURGH, PA (October 19, 2021) The Office of Mayor William Peduto has announced that the Department of Mobility and Infrastructure (DOMI) has received over $560,000 in grant funding for three street safety and traffic improvement projects that support Mayor Peduto’s Complete Streets and Vision Zero policies to ensure that all people traveling in the city- like pedestrians, bicyclists, drivers, transit riders and more – can safely get to their destination regardless of their mode of travel. The projects also support the City’s Climate Action Plan by enhancing efficiency and therefore reducing emissions in residential and business corridors.  DOMI’s Traffic Management Center project has received $266,736 from the Pennsylvania Department of Transportation (PennDOT) through their Green Light-Go Grant Program, which will fund fiber network infrastructure that will connect the center to traffic signals citywide. The important project marks the City’s first Traffic Management Center that will allow DOMI to remotely manage, monitor and adjust all traffic signals from a centralized location to improve safety and efficiency routinely and during special events.  An additional $132,000 from PennDOT’s Green Light-Go program will complement efforts by the Traffic Management Center by funding the East End Signal Retiming Project. As the Baum Blvd, Centre Avenue and Penn Avenue corridors have seen an increase in population, businesses, residential units and walkable destinations, this project will retime 50 traffic signals to match the current needs of the corridors. It will enhance flow and adapt the lights to accommodate the growing number of pedestrians, bicyclists, scooter riders, public transit and vehicles accessing the corridor while reducing emissions in these densely populated areas.  DOMI has also received a total of $162,000 from the Redevelopment Authority of Allegheny County for the Homewood Complete Streets Planning project. This project is part of the Homewood Active Mobility Improvement Pla n and will focus on making improvements the community has identified to increase their ability to safely navigate their neighborhood. Improvements include infrastructure like roads and sidewalks, traffic calming, access to public transportation as well as recreational, religious, educational and business destinations so that all people have a safe way to get where they’re going.  The grants have been presented to City Council today. | 19/10/2021 12:02:41 |
| Police to Open Zone 3 Substation in South Side to Promote Community Safety | PITTSBURGH, PA (October 20, 2021) The Office of Mayor William Peduto and the Department of Public Safety announced today that the City has started construction and will be opening a Zone 3 Police substation in the former South Side police station on South 18th Street.  Instead of having to respond and commute between the South Side nighttime entertainment district and the main Zone 3 office in Allentown, police staff will be able to operate out of the Zone 3 substation during times like weekends when they are typically dispatched to the South Side in high volume. Located off of East Carson Street, officers will be able to use the space for breaks, to do paperwork and respond more efficiently to calls for service in the area.  “The opening of this substation is exciting as our neighbors and businesses in the South Side have called for increased patrols to protect the safety of our community of residents and visitors," said City Councilman Bruce Kraus. "Models like this help officers to be able to walk the beat and become familiar with the community, which builds trust. I’d like to thank Mayor Peduto and the Police Bureau for making this a priority so that all who live in and visit our neighborhood can have a safe and enjoyable experience.”   "The addition of a Pittsburgh Police facility in the South Side flats will provide a more accessible point of contact for residents, businesses, and visitors to the area,” said Pubic Safety Director Wendell Hissrich. “A police substation will afford officers a safe and quiet space to conduct interviews, complete necessary paperwork and take reports. It will also provide a respite for officers working long hours in the busy South Side corridor. I would like to thank Councilman Kraus and the Department of Public Works for recognizing the importance of this facility and for expediting the project. It will be another valuable resource for Pittsburgh Police to enhance public safety on the South Side." The City of Pittsburgh introduced the substation model in order to provide additional support in areas that host large-scale events or entertainment districts that require additional patrols during certain times and neighborhoods that have called for community-based policing. The Pittsburgh Bureau of Police currently operates substations in Downtown and Northview Heights, both of which have been successful in expanding the bureau’s community-based policing strategy.  Construction has begun to renovate the building and is funded through the American Rescue Plan to promote community safety. The South Side substation is expected to open in 2022 and the City plans to open another substation next year in Homewood. The Bureau hopes to open substations in each of the six police zones. | 20/10/2021 11:51:43 |
| City Pension Fund Hits Milestone at Nearly 72% Funded | PITTSBURGH, PA (October 20, 2021) Under the financial leadership of Mayor William Peduto, both as mayor and during his time on City Council, the City has made important progress in strengthening the Comprehensive Municipal Pension Trust Fund (CMFPTF), which provides retirement pension benefits to city staff who provide essential public services to the residents of Pittsburgh.
The City of Pittsburgh and CMPTF Board of Directors is responsible for funding the retirement benefits for three pension funds for city employees through the CMPTF. The fund is managed by a board of peer-elected city staff representatives and is subsidized through employees’ bimonthly contributions, allocation of state aid and the City’s annual contribution. The plans are funded by the City on an annual basis and State Act 205 requires that minimum annual contributions be based upon the calculation of the Minimum Municipal Obligation (MMO).
The strength of a pension fund can be measured in the percentage it is funded by the municipality, which signifies its solvency and sustainability. In 2010, the CMPTF was in distress being funded only 27%. In an effort to protect the pension investments of hardworking city employees, Mayor Peduto, with the leadership of City Council and City Controller Michael Lamb, committed to improving the strength of the fund.
The pension fund was 57.69% funded when Mayor Peduto took office in 2014 and has grown due to the mayor’s annual pension fund contributions that far exceed the state-mandated MMO. In 2020, the MMO called for $51.5 million, but the City contributed a total $99 million. This year, the MMO calls for $52.2 million, but the City will contribute an additional $46 million above the MMO. As a result of this commitment, the fund has hit a new milestone at 72% funded.
“Our pension funds have hit a historic milestone and it could not have happened without the commitment of our Finance team, City Council and the City Controller. I especially want to thank CMPTF Chairman Ralph Sicuro and the CMPTF Board of Directors for their dedication to fighting for and protecting the retirement of their fellow city employees,” said Mayor Peduto.
CMPTF Chairperson Ralph Sicuro added, “The City has followed the Actuarially Recommended Contribution (ARC) which exceeds the MMO set by the state’s Act 205 requirements. The commitment of funding our pensions by following the ARC recommendation over the MMO requirements must continue now and into the future.”
This table outlines the City’s total contributions to the CMPTF and includes the amount contributed over the MMO:
|     |     |     |     |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Year | Total Contributed | Minimum Municipal Obligation | Amount Contributed Over MMO |
| 2015 | $60,858,477 | $42,860,296 | $17,998,181 |
| 2016 | $63,382,560 | $43,073,288 | $20,309,272 |
| 2017 | $70,487,381 | $49,202,651 | $21,284,730 |
| 2018 | $86,414,394 | $49,662,394 | $36,752,000 |
| 2019 | $94,333,652 | $51,011,799 | $43,321,853 |
| 2020 | $99,099,273 | $51,519,388 | $47,579,885 |
| 2021 | $98,819,645 | $52,264,801 | $46,554,844 |
“It’s critical that the City to continue to exceed expectations of investment into the pension fund,” continued Mayor Peduto. “We have employees who commit their whole careers to providing public and essential services to the city and they and their families should not be concerned about the stability of their pension because of the political financial mismanagement of others.” | 20/10/2021 11:45:03 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Wednesday, October 20, 2021 | Evoqua Water Technologies Grand Opening and Ribbon CuttingTime: 9:00 a.m.Speaking at Transatlantic Climate BridgeTime: 1:00 p.m.Location: Virtual | 20/10/2021 09:23:21 |
| Traffic Closures and Restrictions for Allegheny Circle Phase 2 | PITTSBURGH, PA  (October 21, 2021) The City of Pittsburgh’s Department of Mobility and Infrastructure (DOMI) advises that a section of Ridge Avenue in the City’s North Shore neighborhood will be closed the week of October 25, 2021. It is anticipated that the closures will be in place until early December 2021. This will be in addition to the current closures at East Ohio Street and South Federal Street, which are scheduled to remain in place until late November.The detour route for Ridge Avenue is as follows:- Ridge Avenue: Detour using Arch Street and West North Avenue and North Federal Street.- All intersections around Allegheny Commons will remain in STOP conditions for all traffic movements. There will be temporary ADA ramps along with ADA compliant pedestrian detours posted around the work area.Although there will be traffic restrictions, traffic will be maintained on Allegheny Circle while work is completed. Please be aware of flaggers and adhere to changing traffic pattern for motorists, bicycles, and pedestrians.Hours of construction will generally occur during the week, Monday through Thursday, 7:30 a.m. to 5:30 p.m. One lane of traffic along North, South, East, and West Commons will be maintained throughout the construction project. Advance notice will be given prior to detours being put in place or lifted.The purpose of the project is the conversion of Allegheny Commons (North, South, East and West Commons Streets) from one way to bidirectional traffic with bicycle lanes.Thank you for your cooperation during this time. We hope there will be only minor inconveniences. If you have any questions or require further information regarding this project, you may contact the City’s Response Center by calling 311 or 412-255-2621. You can also learn more about DOMI’s other projects at www.pittsburghpa.gov/domi/current-projects. | 21/10/2021 11:15:14 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Thursday, October 21, 2021 | Speaking at Global Parliament of Mayors Annual Summit on Climate MigrationTime: 10:45 a.m.Location: VirtualLarimer Choice Cornerstone Village Phase III &amp; IV GroundbreakingTime: 12:00 p.m.Location: Larimer School | 21/10/2021 09:20:37 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Friday, October 22, 2021 | No public events scheduled. | 22/10/2021 09:26:06 |
| Milling and Paving Resume Monday | PITTSBURGH, PA (October 22, 2021) The City of Pittsburgh Department of Mobility and Infrastructure (DOMI) is continuing its 2021 milling and paving program next week.     Streets being milled include: Turrett St, Lincoln Ave, Tennis St, Bedford Ave, Homestead St, Mapledale St, Little St, Deviliers St, Kirkpatrick St, Bloomer Way, Wylie Ave, Watt St and Wallbash St. Streets being paved include: Lowell, Manetto St, Ryolite St, Oakwood St, Coller St, Turrett St, Lincoln Ave, Tennis, Monticello, Kearns St, Kemp St, New York St, Adolf St, Sterrett St, Casino St, N Dunfermline St, Albion St, Massachusetts Ave, Brandon St, Bedford Ave, Gilboa St, Ingomar St, Deviliers St, Bloomer Way, Wylie Ave, Watt St, Oakridge St and Fitch Way.The full paving schedule for the week, including further details on streets and intersections, is available here. Some milling and paving work next week will require night work, which is indicated on the online paving schedule.  This year the City is investing well over $16 million in the street resurfacing program, which supports asphalt street resurfacing, ADA curb ramp upgrades on paved streets, and repair of concrete, brick and block stone streets throughout Pittsburgh. Approximately 34 miles of streets will be resurfaced this year. Additional mileage will be resurfaced through cooperation agreements with local public utilities. Mechanical patching will improve many miles more by addressing particular trouble spots on otherwise acceptable street corridors.  While many residents are continuing to work from home, the City will be continuing extra efforts to notify residents to move their vehicles to enable street resurfacing to proceed. Streets scheduled for resurfacing will be posted weekly on DOMI’s website and will be publicized through city social media channels. | 22/10/2021 14:53:54 |
| West Ohio Street Bridge Re-Opens | PITTSBURGH, PA (October 22, 2021) The City of Pittsburgh’s Department of Mobility and Infrastructure (DOMI) is pleased to announce that work is approaching completion of the new West Ohio Street Bridge over Norfolk Southern Railroad in Allegheny Commons Park in the Northside. The $6.25 million bridge project is on track for completion in early December.This bridge was closed to traffic in January 2018 due to deterioration of the 117-year-old structure. While work is on-going, the project is now at a stage where the new bridge can accommodate all pedestrians, vehicles and transit. This bridge was opened to all users on Thursday, October 21, 2021. At this time, pedestrians who have been traveling along the southern perimeter of the worksite to cross the temporary pedestrian bridge can make use of the new bridge. Merchant Street at the intersection of Ridge Avenue will remain closed while the old Ridge Place bridge is demolished over the coming weeks.Please be mindful of construction and new detours in the area as work progresses on the adjacent roadway project in Allegheny Circle.Thank you for your patience with these Northside improvements. If you have any questions, or require further information regarding this project you may contact the City’s Response Center by calling 311 or 412-255-2621. To learn more about DOMI’s other projects, please visit our website at https://pittsburghpa.gov/domi/current-projects.  | 22/10/2021 11:55:11 |
| Ammon Recreation Center Renovated to Bring Tech Skills Programming to Hill District Youth | PITTSBURGH, PA (October 25, 2021) A newly renovated tech learning lab is now open at Ammon Rec Center in the Hill District. The Departments of Parks and Recreation (Citiparks) and Public Works (DPW) along with partners and the community cut the ribbon today on the new state of the art facility that will serve as one of two new hubs for the City’s Rec2Tech program.  With generous support of the Pittsburgh Penguins and F.N.B. Corporation, the City of Pittsburgh has transformed Ammon Recreation Center’s second floor into a new dynamic technology lab that will serve as a hub for Rec2Tech. DPW completed the $120,000 renovation project that includes brand new interior improvements designed to maximize the learning environment for young people that includes new furniture, carpeting, window treatments, walls, doors and cabinets. DPW also worked with the Department of Innovation and Performance to install brand new wireless technology and expanded networking to support the new tech learning lab and other portions of the recreation center. As part of a $345,000 grant received from the National Science Foundation and Digital Harbor Foundation last year, Ammon Recreation Center was identified by the City to serve as one of two hub learning environments in Pittsburgh to host Citiparks’ Rec2Tech program to provide access to technology, learn important job readiness skills like coding, artificial intelligence (AI), computer science and inspire creative exploration. Paulson Recreation Center was also identified to serve as a hub through the grant.  Programming for the space will be managed by Citiparks, who oversees the Rec2Tech program, with partners Ozanam and the Josh Gibson Foundation to activate the space with tech learning opportunities for Hill District youth. Rec2Tech is an initiative of the City of Pittsburgh to transform all of the City’s recreation centers into spaces and places where community members can access technology and innovative programming, inc | 25/10/2021 15:02:22 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Tuesday, October 26, 2021 | Giving Remarks at Press Conference with Councilperson StrassburgerTime: 9:00 a.m. | 26/10/2021 02:40:32 |
| City Selects The Efficiency Network for LED Streetlight Conversion and Installation Project for Over $1 Million Annual Energy Savings | PITTSBURGH, PA (October 26, 2021) The Office of Mayor William Peduto has announced that Pittsburgh-based The Efficiency Network (TEN) has been selected for the citywide LED streetlight conversion project. The project will convert the City’s existing inventory of 35,000 overhead streetlights to LED in order to save over $1 million a year in energy cost, reduce greenhouse gas emissions, create union jobs and generate workforce development opportunities. New streetlights will comply with the City’s newly passed Dark Skies Lighting standards to reduce light pollution and aid in a healthy natural environment for people, animals and bird migration. The $16 million project will deliver LED lights that are more durable and reduce energy consumption by 40-50% based on the U.S. Department of Energy and industry standards and will reduce greenhouse gas emissions based on the reduced consumption of electricity. The project will also reduce the costs and frequency of outages and replacements and provide a fully functional turnkey system that will include data collection and data analysis. Throughout the second half of 2020 and early 2021, Pittsburgh’s Departments of Mobility &amp; Infrastructure (DOMI) and Innovation &amp; Performance (I&amp;P) contracted with the company Cyclomedia to conduct a full photographic survey of the city’s utility poles and streetlights, leading to the first ever full geographic database of Pittsburgh’s streetlights. With this data, the City was able to estimate how many new lights might be needed to address equity concerns related to the availability of street lighting in city neighborhoods. With funding from the American Rescue Plan, the City will add up to 15,000 additional new lights to address areas of lighting inequities. TEN will also be providing workforce development opportunities as part of the project, including their partnership with the A. Philip Randolph Institute to connect young people to vocations and offer multiple pathways for employment after the project is complete. Additionally they are creating new apprenticeship funnel program with Pittsburgh Public Schools CTE program that will have a curriculum created by TEN, Duquesne Light Company, IBEW Local #5 and Local #29. TEN will deliver this project utilizing the trains local workforce provided by IBEW Local #5. “TEN cannot be more honored to support the City of Pittsburgh in making this significant infrastructure improvement that will benefit all city residents,” said Troy Geanopulos, CEO of TEN. “In addition to improving the quality of lighting throughout the city and saving it valuable funds, we will use the opportunity to work with the A. Phillip Randolph Institute to identify and train city residents to support some of the workforce needs of the project.” The public is encouraged to learn more about the project and stay up to date with project updates and opportunities for engagement and comment through the City’s online public engagement portal, EngagePGH, here. The project is being managed by DOMI in collaboration with I&amp;P, Office of Management and Budget and Department of City Planning’s Sustainability and Resilience Division. Installation is expected to start in spring 2022 and should take two and a half years to complete. | 26/10/2021 14:21:17 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Thursday, October 28, 2021 | Healing Nature and Self Event with Dr. Barry Kerzin and PhippsTime: 10:30 a.m.Groundbreaking for Harvard Beatty Street and Mellon's Orchard South OpeningTime: 3:00 p.m. | 28/10/2021 09:15:45 |
| City Recognizes Nearly $27 Million in Affordable Housing Developments in East Liberty | PITTSBURGH, PA (October 28, 2021) The City of Pittsburgh joined partners Trek Development Group, Housing Authority of the City of Pittsburgh (HACP), Urban Redevelopment of Pittsburgh (URA) and community members, including representatives from the Penn Plaza Support and Action Coalition and East Liberty Development Inc. (ELDI), today to officially open the Mellons Orchard South and break ground on the Harvard Beatty Housing development projects.  Both development projects were designed in partnership with the community according to the vision laid out in the East Liberty Community Plan, which outlines redeveloping vacant land closer to the business district, providing diverse housing choices and offering priority housing preference for previous residents of Penn Plaza.  Construction of the $13.6 million, 47 mixed-income, multi-family units that make up Mellons Orchard South began in 2019 and was completed in 2021. The development includes 35 apartment units, 12 townhouses and a community room. Of those, 37 units will be affordable, 10 will be market rate and eight are reserved for HACP project-based voucher holders. Fourteen former Penn Plaza residents are currently living there. The community also includes six accessible units and one unit for individuals with sensory impairments.  The ground was broken today for the Harvard Beatty Housing new construction development, which will replace a surface parking lot at the edge of the East Liberty business district across from Mellons Orchard. This $14.3 million project will include 42 apartment units with 33 affordable units, nine market rate units, eight units for HACP project-based voucher holders and priority for former Penn Plaza residents. The project was awarded a 9% Low-Income Housing Tax Credit (LIHTC) by the state, which was part of Mayor William Peduto’s record number of LIHTC awards in 2020. The project is expected to be completed and in service by late 2022.  "It’s important to have partners work together to achieve the vision of our communities and to meet the needs they define like East Liberty did in their community plan,” said Mayor William Peduto. “These projects represent the brick and mortar affordable housing we need, but they also represent investment in our most important assets – our people, our businesses and their visions. I’d like to thank all of our partners who have made these projects a reality and especially thank ELDI and the Penn Plaza Support and Action Coalition for their most important contributions to its success.”  “We are honored and proud to be a member of this team working to address important questions around urban redevelopment, affordability and the future of the East Liberty neighborhood,” said William Gatti, CEO and President of Trek Development Group. “The collaboration and generative spirit of this group of people is unique and heartwarming.” Mellon's Orchard:Rendering of Harvard Beatty:Images courtesy of Perfido Weiskopf Wagstaff + Goettel. | 28/10/2021 14:10:07 |
| Milling and Paving Resume Monday | PITTSBURGH, PA (October 29, 2021) The City of Pittsburgh Department of Mobility and Infrastructure (DOMI) is continuing its 2021 milling and paving program next week.     Streets being milled include: Wylie Ave, Elmdale Rd, Fall Way, Wyola St, Marland Way, Old Ln, Deely St, Paul St and 20th St. Streets being paved include: Ryolite Way, Bedford Ave, Wabash St, Elbon St, Devilliers St, Bloomer Way, Kirkpatrick St, New York St, Adolph St, Kearns Ave, Kemp St, Elmdale Rd, Wylie Ave, Frampton Ave, Watt St, Tustin St, Brandon Rd, Massachusetts Ave, Roosevelt Ave, Wyola St, Old Ln, Fall Way, Marland Way and Institute St. The full paving schedule for the week, including further details on streets and intersections, is available here. Some milling and paving work next week will require night work, which is indicated on the online paving schedule.  This year the City is investing well over $16 million in the street resurfacing program, which supports asphalt street resurfacing, ADA curb ramp upgrades on paved streets, and repair of concrete, brick and block stone streets throughout Pittsburgh. Over 57 miles of streets will be resurfaced this year. Additional mileage will be resurfaced through cooperation agreements with local public utilities. Mechanical patching will improve many miles more by addressing particular trouble spots on otherwise acceptable street corridors.  While many residents are continuing to work from home, the City will be continuing extra efforts to notify residents to move their vehicles to enable street resurfacing to proceed. Streets scheduled for resurfacing will be posted weekly on DOMI’s website and will be publicized through city social media channels. | 29/10/2021 15:39:05 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Friday, October 29, 2021 | Press Conference and Groundbreaking for Public Safety Training Campus at Former VA SiteTime: 1 p.m.Location: Former VA Site Building #1, Highland Drive, Lincoln-Lemington Interview with Keystone State News ConnectionsTime: 4:00 p.m. | 29/10/2021 09:58:51 |
| City Shares Plans for Sustainable Public Safety Campus that Will Provide Life-Saving Services and Cost-Savings | PITTSBURGH, PA (October 29, 2021) Mayor William Peduto joined Department of Public Safety and Department of Public Works officials today at the site of the former Veterans Administration campus in Lincoln-Lemington to discuss the future of the site. The campus will be redeveloped and transformed into a state-of-the-art regional public safety training site, centralized campus for Pittsburgh Public Safety operations and will include net zero energy efficiency and stormwater management components to address the dangerous flood-prone Washington Boulevard corridor.  The property was acquired after federal government agencies approved the use of the site by the City as a public safety campus earlier this year. By relocating training facilities to one campus, Pittsburgh’s award-winning public safety bureaus intend to develop training for police, fire, EMS and animal care and control departments throughout the region to improve service to the greater community.  The project will save millions of taxpayer dollars currently spent on leases by relocating public safety operations and public works storage from around the city to the campus.  The City plans to bring Emergency Medical Services headquarters from Shadyside, Police Headquarters from Chateau, Police Training Academy from Allegheny West and the vehicle repair shop from the Strip District. The plan also includes building an indoor firing range on the campus to move it from its current location in the Highland Park neighborhood. Locations that will be vacated that the City currently owns can be sold to be put back on the tax rolls and redeveloped to benefit neighborhoods. The project will also allow the City to implement green and sustainable stormwater solutions to alleviate dangerous flooding along Washington Blvd for the safety of all. By vacating public safety facilities located on the low-lying road, the City and PWSA can create a comprehensive solution to divert stormwater from the road.  The site will feature additional green sustainable solutions as redevelopment will follow the net zero requirements for City facilities championed by the Peduto Administration in 2019. The renovated buildings will be energy efficient and will produce as much energy as they consume, providing additional cost savings to taxpayers.  “This site provides us with a historic opportunity to offer the best in life-saving training to public safety personnel from around the region, advance sustainable green development, provide a solution to decades of intractable flood mitigation challenges, expand the city tax base and save taxpayers money,” said Mayor Peduto. “This project thinks big and provides big solutions for the betterment of our communities.”  Long-term financing plans for the campus are listed in the City’s 2021 budget. | 29/10/2021 14:28:11 |
| Mayor Peduto Statement on Passing of Judge Justin Johnson | PITTSBURGH, PA (November 1, 2021) Mayor William Peduto has issued the following statement about the passing of the Honorable Justin Johnson:"I had the privilege of getting to know Judge Justin Johnson through his leadership at East Liberty Presbyterian Church while I was a City Councilman. Together, we worked on issues of equity, peace and gun violence with his wife, Florence. I already knew him as a brilliant legal scholar and then got to experience his passion, heart and commitment for the City of Pittsburgh and Commonwealth of Pennsylvania. After his time on the bench, we maintained our friendship and I was honored when Judge Johnson swore me in as the 60th Mayor of Pittsburgh. My thoughts and prayers are with Florence and the whole Johnson family." | 1/11/2021 21:00:49 |
| City to Expand Nelson Mandela Peace Park in Garfield | PITTSBURGH, PA (November 1, 2021) The City of Pittsburgh has finalized the purchase of an additional land parcel in the Garfield neighborhood to expand green space for the Nelson Mandela Peace Park. The community had requested the expansion of the park and has worked with the City and Bloomfield-Garfield Corporation to purchase the adjacent lot.  The newly-purchased parcel sits between the park and a city-owned lot that will also be used to expand the green space. The City purchased the parcel from the Bloomfield-Garfield Corporation for $5,000 and will continue to work directly with the community to facilitate the expansion.  The Department of Public Works has recently worked directly with the community to provide playground renovations inlcuding new equipment and a brand new spray feature, which was unveiled in August 2020.  Aerial view of Nelson Mandela Peace Park with adjacent lots that will be used to expand the park. | 1/11/2021 15:10:04 |
| City of Pittsburgh Announces Employee COVID-19 Vaccine Requirement to Protect Health and Safety of Employees and Public | PITTSBURGH, PA (November 1, 2021) The City of Pittsburgh has announced that all employees are required to be fully vaccinated against COVID-19 by December 22, 2021 in order to protect employees as well as the public they serve.  Employees will be considered fully vaccinated two weeks after a person’s second dose in a two-dose series and two weeks after a single-dose vaccine. The City will be hosting vaccine clinics for employees at city facilities to help accommodate getting the vaccinations.  “We have all been through so much over the past year and a half as we watched COVID-19 shut down our businesses, our schools and sent people to shelter in place,” said Mayor William Peduto. “The science is clear that getting the vaccine protects us from the severity of COVID and its variants that are once again filling our hospitals. Our employees provide essential public services on the front lines, interacting directly with our critical communities like seniors, youth and those experiencing emergencies. It is our responsibility to act collectively to protect both our employees and the public so that we can move on and continue our recovery from the pandemic.” A copy of Mayor Peduto's Executive Order for the vaccine requirement is available here. | 1/11/2021 11:56:15 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Monday, November 1, 2021 | No public events scheduled | 1/11/2021 09:50:17 |
| City Electronic Waste and Household Hazardous Waste Recycling Temporarily Suspended | PITTSBURGH, PA (November 2, 2021) Due to unforeseen issues with our hard-to-recycle vendor Environmental Coordination Services &amp; Recycling (ECS&amp;R), the City is temporarily suspending service at its bi-weekly drop-off location in the Strip District and cancelling upcoming neighborhood collection events in Lawrenceville and Crafton Heights.  The City of Pittsburgh is working diligently to resolve these issues.  Other options for proper disposal and recycling of these materials can be found at the bottom of the City’s Electronic Waste Disposal webpage here. | 2/11/2021 10:26:39 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Tuesday, November 2, 2021 | Presenting Proclamation to Mr. Adam ZellTime: 11 a.m.Location: Mayor's Conference RoomRibbon Cutting at 412 Boulevard of the AlliesTime: 1 p.m.Location: 412 Boulevard of the Allies | 2/11/2021 08:46:58 |
| City, HACP and URA Host Tour on Renovations at 412 Boulevard of the Allies and One-Stop-Shop for Resident Needs | PITTSBURGH, PA (November 2, 2021) The City of Pittsburgh officials, Housing Authority of the City of Pittsburgh (HACP) and Urban Redevelopment Authority of Pittsburgh (URA) joined Mayor William Peduto today to present renovation progress on the new 412 Boulevard of the Allies building Downtown. The nine-story building was jointly purchased by the three co-owners in 2018 in order to relocate offices and services from the over-century-old John P. Robin Civic Building at 200 Ross Street into a new facility better equipped to serve the public and offer efficient services.  The building is currently in various stages of renovation, with the URA’s renovations completed and operational. The building will also house HACP and the City’s Departments of City Planning (DCP), Mobility and Infrastructure (DOMI) and Permits, Licenses and Inspections (PLI) to make their services more accessible to the public. The entry level will serve as a user-friendly “One-Stop-Shop" for residents’ needs, complementing the City’s online OneStopPGH permit and licensing system, as well as HACP resident services. Individuals will be able to easily apply for any kind of permit or license at the “One-Stop-Shop" without having to navigate complicated processes involving visiting several different floors and offices, as was the case in 200 Ross Street.  Upon purchase, the building had previously undergone renovations to the core, shell and mechanical systems. The current renovations will bring the building into Leadership in Environmental and Energy Design (LEED) certification, offering cost savings through energy efficiencies. Each of the three owners are designing efficient, purpose-built spaces that are currently in various stages of design, maintenance and construction to fully build out a facility that meets to needs of employees and the public they serve.  “We are glad to be here with all of our partners on this project to create a green, healthy working space for our staff and a more modernized, welcoming experience for our visitors,” said Mayor William Peduto. “I’d like to thank the URA and HACP for their partnership in this project, the Department of Public Works for their hard work in transforming the space and our Departments of City Planning, Permits, Licenses and Inspections and Mobility and Infrastructure for committing to delivering much easier walk-in services.”  City of Pittsburgh offices will be housed on the second, third and fourth floors with HACP on floors five, six and seven and the URA already occupying the eighth and ninth floors.  Renovation of 200 Ross Street, the previous home of the three entities, was cost prohibitive for the City. The building was over a hundred years old with chronically malfunctioning and antiquated heating and cooling systems, unreliable elevators and an unwelcoming floor plan for providing public services to visitors. The City is preparing to sell the iconic building, which was built as the administrative headquarters for Jones and Laughlin Steel, to save taxpayers money and encourage its redevelopment. | 2/11/2021 12:42:51 |
| Raised Crosswalk to be Installed on Darlington Road | PITTSBURGH, PA (November 2, 2021) The City of Pittsburgh’s Department of Mobility and Infrastructure (DOMI) is pleased to announce the installation of traffic calming measures on Darlington Road from Wightman Street to Murray Avenue. A raised crosswalk will be installed at a high-use, mid-block crosswalk. Drivers were observed accelerating at an unsafe rate of speed near this mid-block crossing in order to make the traffic signal at Murray Avenue. The need to protect students crossing at this unprotected location indicated a strong need for a traffic calming intervention.The project will include the construction of one raised crosswalk. A raised crosswalk works similarly to a speed hump by elevating the wheelbase of a vehicle in order to decrease its speed. The raised crosswalk has an ADA-compliant walkable surface for pedestrians to cross the road safely. Permanent signage and pavement markings will be installed to alert motorists of an approaching raised crosswalk.Work is tentatively expected to begin on November 6, 2021 and is expected to last two days, weather permitting. Hours of construction will be Monday through Saturday 7:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. Darlington Road will be closed to all traffic, except local, during construction of the raised crosswalk. Traffic will be detoured to Forbes Avenue or Bartlett Street. Local traffic may experience some short stoppages to safely pass through the work zone. Temporary no parking signage will be posted at the raised crosswalk location.Thank you for your cooperation during this time. We hope there will be only minor inconveniences. If you have any questions or require further information regarding this project, you may contact the City’s Response Center by calling 311 or 412-255-2621.If you have questions about any of our other traffic calming projects, you may contact us by email at trafficcalming@pittsburghpa.gov. You can learn more about DOMI’s Neighborhood Traffic Calming Program at www.pittsburghpa.gov/domi/traffic-calming. | 2/11/2021 10:40:10 |
| City Joins Mistick Construction to Dedicate Cal-Bride Place and Celebrate Redevelopment of 307 Affordable Housing Units in Northside | PITTSBURGH, PA (November 3, 2021) Today, Mistick Construction and Northside Properties Development Company hosted dignitaries and local leaders to celebrate the reinvigoration of the Cal-Bride neighborhood on the city’s Northside. The event marked the dedication of Cal-Bride Place, the fourth phase of the ongoing redevelopment of 307 units owned by North Side Associates (NSA) located within the historic Northside Neighborhoods of Pittsburgh. The 30-unit apartment building at the corner of California Avenue and Kirkbride Street, will support and stabilize the existing neighborhood by creating a gateway into the broader Northside area. The facility will also feature a community center available for residents and community members to host events, programs and social services. Six duplexes will be located on the Northwestern portion of the site on Sedgwick Street and Kunkle Avenue and will feature 3-4 bedroom layouts for larger families. On hand to dedicate the project were State Senator Wayne D. Fontana, State Representative Jake Wheatley, Jr., Allegheny County Executive Rich Fitzgerald, Mayor William Peduto's Chief of Staff Dan Gilman, City Councilman R. Daniel Lavelle, and Sarah Mistick, Owner and President, Northside Properties Development Company.“Today, we are celebrating not just the development of more affordable housing in the Northside, but also providing opportunities for our neighbors to build wealth and investment in our neighborhoods. I’d like to thank Mistick Construction and our partners for working with the community on these projects and providing over 307 units- with each unit representing a family that gets to continue to build roots in the Northside for generations to come,” Mayor William Peduto said of the project.“Cal-Bride Place is a shining example of many different groups coming together to build something special,” said Sarah Mistick, Owner and President, Northside Properties Development Company. “Not only is each unit an affordable home for an individual or family, it’s also the beginning of a new, stronger community.” The three additional phases of renovation total 265 units of affordable housing located throughout the Northside.About Mistick Construction:Established in 1951, Mistick Construction delivers superior user experiences by building lasting relationships with architects, developers and the community that result in exceptional buildings. At Mistick Construction, we begin with the outcome in mind, consider every detail and stand behind our work. To learn more, please visit https://mistickconstruction.com/.Mistick Construction Media Contact: Dan AyerOyster Creative Collective 412-874-5256dan@oystercreates.com | 3/11/2021 10:30:31 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - November 3, 2021 | No public events scheduled. | 3/11/2021 09:56:50 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Thursday, November 4, 2021 | No public events scheduled. | 4/11/2021 08:18:20 |
| City Announces Yard Waste Collection Next Week with Preparation Tips from Environmental Services | PITTSBURGH, PA (November 4, 2021) Pittsburgh residents are encouraged to set out their leaves, grass, branches, and brush on Saturday, November 13, 2021 for City workers to collect curbside.
Yard waste must be set out at residents’ usual trash/recycling spot before 6:00 a.m.
Environmental Services workers will be up early collecting:
|     |     |
| --- | --- |
| Leaves | Must be contained in brown paper bags and not weighing more than 35 lbs |
| Grass |
| Brush |
| Branches | Must be bundled with fiber twine or natural rope, in branch widths no more than 4 inches in diameter, and no more than 5 feet in length |
Yard waste set out for collection must not contain any plastic bags, glass, rocks, blocks, bricks, dirt or gravel. Yard waste that does not meet the collection guidelines will be left at the curb.
Year-round, the City of Pittsburgh operates 3 drop-off centers that accept yard waste during regular business hours. Proof of residency is required.
E a st End Drop-Off Center (2nd Division)
6814 Hamilton Ave, Pittsburgh, PA 15208 (entrance on Dallas Ave)
Mon-Sat 7 am-2 pm, closed on holidays
412-665-3609
Hazelwood Drop-Off Center (3rd Division)
40 Melanchton St, Pittsburgh, PA 15207
Mon-Fri 8 am-2 pm, closed on holidays
412-422-6545
West End Drop-Off Center (5th Division)
1330 Hassler St, Pittsburgh, PA 15220
Mon-Sat 8 am-2 pm, closed on holidays
412-937-3054
More information can be found on the City’s website here.
The City’s Division of Sustainability and Resilience would like to use this opportunity to encourage residents to let fallen leaves remain in place when possible. Leftover leaves support pollinators and other invertebrates by providing them with winter cover. Consider leaving your leaves in a pile to decompose, use them to mulch garden beds or add to your compost. | 4/11/2021 12:38:43 |
| City of Pittsburgh and Pittsburgh Downtown Partnership Seeking Community Input for Smithfield Street Visioning Survey | PITTSBURGH, PA (November 4, 2021) – The City of Pittsburgh has partnered with the Pittsburgh Downtown Partnership to launch a public survey to gather feedback on the future of the Smithfield Street corridor from community members who work, live, and play there.   The Smithfield Street and Public Space Visioning Survey is part of Smithfield Reimagined, a community-based process to create a long-term vision and plan for the Smithfield Street corridor, which has served as an important destination in Downtown Pittsburgh for over 200 years. The project is one of nine high-impact priorities identified in the Downtown Mobility Plan, a unified mobility and placemaking plan for Downtown Pittsburgh’s streets released in May 2021.  "Smithfield Street plays a vital role in the Downtown experience and is amid a reemergence, with hundreds of millions of private development dollars being invested along the corridor. This project will ensure that Smithfield Street will be a welcoming, walkable, and vibrant destination that celebrates its historic legacy, and where the Pittsburgh community can continue to ‘meet under the clock’ for decades to come,” said Mayor William Peduto.  The survey results will be used to inform continued work along Smithfield Street and help guide future redevelopment in the area. The City of Pittsburgh’s Department of Mobility and Infrastructure is currently planning a $9 million reconstruction of the street between Forbes and Sixth Avenue to begin in 2023 and will use this long-term vision to inform specific design decisions.  In the past year, the Department of City Planning and the Pittsburgh Downtown Partnership have already gathered feedback on the project from community stakeholders such as Downtown residents, property owners, employers, small businesses, non-profits, community groups, and more.   “We are grateful for the partnership both with the City of Pittsburgh and with stakeholders in the Downtown community” said Chris Watts, Vice President of District Development for the Pittsburgh Downtown Partnership. “This next round of feedback from the public will build upon what we’ve heard while directly guiding both upcoming short-term pilot projects and the long-term health and revitalization of one of the City’s most important corridors.”  The Smithfield Street &amp; Public Space Visioning Survey is now live and will be available through Sunday, December 5, 2021. Downtown residents, workers, and visitors are encouraged to take the survey, available on the Reimagining Smithfield EngagePGH page. Pittsburgh Downtown Partnership Media Contact: Colten Gill, Senior Manager, Marketing &amp; Communications cgill@downtownpittsburgh.com | 4/11/2021 14:56:45 |
| Pittsburgh Selected to Host Global Climate and Energy Meeting | PITTSBURGH, PA (November 4, 2021) Today, the U.S. Department of Energy Secretary Jennifer M. Granholm announced that Pittsburgh will serve as the host city for the 2022 Clean Energy Ministerial (CEM) and the ministerial for Mission Innovation (MI) next September.Secretary Granholm made the announcement today at the United Nations Conference of Parties (COP26) with Chile Energy Minister Carlos Jobet, Special Envoy for Climate John Kerry and virtual remarks from Mayor William Peduto.Pittsburgh was selected by the federal government to host the United States’ CEM and MI because of its commitment to innovation and reinventing its industrial past through sustainability, technology, research and development and the City’s prioritization of renewable energies and the ambitious goals being rapidly achieved in the Climate Action Plan.  "The City of Pittsburgh is proud and pleased to be chosen to host the 2022 CEM MI to bring leaders from around the world to share ideas about turning our industrial regions into regions of opportunity for sustainable energy,” said Mayor William Peduto. “Pittsburgh is the city that built America, rooted proudly in our tradition of hard work and innovation. Through our partnership with regional leaders in the Marshall Plan for Middle America, we recognize that our economies in Upper Appalachia and the Ohio River Valley cannot depend on fossil fuels, but we already have the infrastructure in the companies, workforce and research and development to lead the future of sustainable energy rather than getting left behind. I thank Secretary Granholm for providing us this opportunity and we look forward to hosting CEM MI in Pittsburgh." Mayor Peduto’s Marshall Plan for Middle America, announced last year, focuses on the region’s potential to become the leader in producing clean, sustainable energy. While Upper Appalachia and the Ohio River Valley have historically depended on heavy industry and fossil fuels, the region has the resources to create the energy industry of the future through innovations and investments in the workforce, companies and infrastructure. Mayor Peduto is joined by several mayors in support of the MP4MA to create an equitable and just economy for their families and future generations.  “The U.S. is proud to host the 2022 Clean Energy Ministerial and ministerial for Mission Innovation in the Steel City of Pittsburgh, PA, a town that exemplifies how a legacy energy and industrial-dependent economy can be transformed into a technology and innovation powerhouse,” said Secretary of Energy Jennifer M. Granholm. “The joint CEM/MI ministerial meetings represent an opportunity to lock in climate commitments through big bets on innovation that empower an energy transition by 2050—averting the worst effects of climate change and supercharging economic opportunities for the global workforce.”The United States hosting the 2022 CEM and MI reinforces its leadership and commitment to international collaboration. CEM and MI bring together 31 countries together with the goal of rapidly accelerating clean energy innovation and deployment to achieve net zero by 2050, to avoid the worst effects of climate change and provide new economic opportunities for workers at home and abroad.   | 4/11/2021 14:29:37 |
| Walz Street to Be Converted to One-Way | PITTSBURGH, PA (November 5, 2021) The City of Pittsburgh’s Department of Mobility and Infrastructure (DOMI) is pleased to announce that Walz Street between Rhine Street and Homer Street will be converted to a one-way street after review of safety issues observed by residents and DOMI staff. Our research found that street is narrow and sight is limited due to the horizontal curvature of the roadway, existing structures along the sidewalk and demand for on-street parking.In order to address these vehicle and pedestrian safety concerns, one lane of traffic must be rerouted. DOMI has selected the southbound lane for removal based on community feedback and accessibility of adjacent streets. Walz Street will now be one-way in the northbound direction from Rhine Street to Homer Street.Work will be done on Monday, November 15, 2021 between the hours of 7:00 am to 4:00 pm and is expected to last one day. Temporary signage will be placed before construction is scheduled to begin. DOMI will also place permanent signage for this new traffic operation. The street, using the new traffic pattern, will be open during the time work is taking place.Thank you for your cooperation during this time. We hope there will be only minor inconveniences. If you have any questions or require further information regarding this project, you may contact the City’s Response Center by calling 311 or 412-255-2621. If you have questions about any of our other traffic calming projects, you may contact us by email at trafficcalming@pittsburghpa.gov. You can learn more about DOMI’s Neighborhood Traffic Calming Program at www.pittsburghpa.gov/domi/traffic-calming. | 5/11/2021 10:04:37 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Friday, November 5, 2021 | Speaking at Corporate Equity and Inclusion Roundtable ConferenceTime: 10:55 a.m.Hays Woods Bill Signing and Tree PlantingTime: 12:00 p.m.Location: Agnew Road TrailheadKey to the City Presentation to Andrew Moore and Red WhittakerTime: 2:00 p.m.Location: Mayor's Conference Room | 5/11/2021 09:31:43 |
| Mayor Peduto Signs Historic Bill to Create Hays Woods Park | PITTSBURGH, PA (November 5, 2021) Mayor William Peduto today signed the bill to officially create the Hays Woods Park. After nearly thirty years of Mayor Peduto’s steadfast advocacy for preserving the green space, Pittsburgh City Council recently passed the legislation allowing the City to buy the property from the Urban Redevelopment Authority of Pittsburgh for $1.   “Hays Woods is a gem in the middle of the city,” said Mayor William Peduto. “My administration acquiring this land will ensure that generations of Pittsburghers are given the opportunity to enjoy the incredible wilderness it provides. It represents the capstone of some 30-years advocating for the protection of our environment and investing and expanding in our urban greenspaces and parks. The addition of Hays Woods Park not only protects our urban canopy, but it helps the City in its efforts to reach its Climate Action goals.”   Hays Woods was originally a series of farms and coal mines that was previously privately owned. Throughout the past few decades, private entities have proposed developments, which Mayor Peduto vocally opposed as development of the natural land required severe deforestation and deconstruction of natural hills and ravines. As city councilman, Mayor Peduto voted against efforts to mountaintop the site and build a racetrack and casino. As Mayor, he opposed efforts to allow horizontal fracking at the site and negotiated the acquisition of the land.  After years of environmental leadership and perseverance, Mayor Peduto worked to secure the property for public recreational use alongside Councilman Corey O’Connor and community groups. In 2016, the Urban Redevelopment Authority purchased the land for $5 million.  While the land has a history of industrial use, the over 600 acres of Hays Woods has been naturally conserved and provides a sense of wilderness in an otherwise urban area. Despite the environmental degradation typical of old mined lands, it features areas of substantial tree canopy, significant flora and fauna, and even a pair of nesting bald eagles. A public parkland acquisition of this magnitude has not occurred in Pittsburgh since the formal establishment of Frick Park in 1927. Hays Woods is also the largest urban park and preservation project undertaken east of the Mississippi River in nearly 75 years.  “So many have fought for this moment,” said Councilman Corey O’Connor who helped lead the effort to protect Hays Woods. “I want to thank the Mayor, community groups, foundations, and activists who have all worked to preserve this land. One of Pittsburgh’s greatest assets is our incredible greenspaces.”  Mayor Peduto, Councilman O’Connor, and other City officials followed the bill signing with a ceremonial tree planting – the first new tree of Hays Woods. The City will now begin the process of planning future needs for Hays Woods such as parking and formalized access points. | 5/11/2021 14:28:01 |
| Paving Resumes Monday | PITTSBURGH, PA (November 5, 2021) The City of Pittsburgh Department of Mobility and Infrastructure (DOMI) is continuing its 2021 milling and paving program next week.     Streets being milled include: Marland Way, Louisa St, Little St, Oakley Way, Marguerite and Stromberg. Streets being paved include: West Ohio St, 20th St, Brandon Rd, Roosevelt Ave, Fall Way, Louisa St, Deely St, Marland Way, Martha St, Frampton Ave, Little St, Old Ln and Stromberg St.Additional streets may be added next week. The full paving schedule for the week, including further details on streets and intersections, is available here. Some milling and paving work next week will require night work, which is indicated on the online paving schedule.  This year the City is investing well over $16 million in the street resurfacing program, which supports asphalt street resurfacing, ADA curb ramp upgrades on paved streets, and repair of concrete, brick and block stone streets throughout Pittsburgh. Over 57 miles of streets will be resurfaced this year. Additional mileage will be resurfaced through cooperation agreements with local public utilities. Mechanical patching will improve many miles more by addressing particular trouble spots on otherwise acceptable street corridors.  While many residents are continuing to work from home, the City will be continuing extra efforts to notify residents to move their vehicles to enable street resurfacing to proceed. Streets scheduled for resurfacing will be posted weekly on DOMI’s website and will be publicized through city social media channels. | 5/11/2021 15:17:45 |
| Three Peduto Administration Staff to Depart for New Positions | PITTSBURGH, PA (November 5, 2021) Three additional members of the Peduto Administration are moving on to new opportunities.  “Leah, Hersh and Gisele have provided unparalleled public service to the communities of Pittsburgh,” said Mayor William Peduto. “They have listened to our residents, helped them with problems, educated them about city operations and assisted with breaking down the red tape that has traditionally separated residents from the government. I want to thank them all for their dedication, energy and service to the City.”  Gisele Betances started her work as a community liaison in the Office of Community Affairs (OCA) in May of 2020 following a CORO Pittsburgh fellowship with the office. During her time with OCA, Betances worked directly with communities and managed several community engagement programs for residents.  Her accomplishments include: - Managed the City Cuts program during the height of the pandemic - Increased immigrant participation in the Civic Leadership Academy, which teaches residents about local government operations directly from city department directors and leaders, and arranged to have Spanish interpretation for the program - Coordinated and promoted volunteer engagement with internal and external partners to support critical city resident programsHer last day in OCA was October 29 and on November 1 she started a new role as a Community Programming Coordinator for the Department of Public Works, where she will continue to manage community engagement programs.   Leah Friedman began working for the City in 2017 as an AmeriCORPS VISTA Resilience Fellow with the Office of Sustainability and Resilience before moving to the role of community liaison in OCA in 2018. She was promoted to Community Affairs Manager in 2020 and shepherded the public engagement office through the new challenges to community interaction presented by the pandemic. She demonstrated leadership in OCA’s commitment to continuing to work with neighborhood and community groups to advocate their priorities and needs citywide. Her many accomplishments over the past four years include:  - Launched and managing EngagePGH, the City’s first online engagement platform - Provided funding and education to Pittsburgh resident and communities through Love Your Block and Civic Leadership Academy and delivering vital services to seniors through Snow Angels and the City Cuts Programs - Hosted and facilitated transparent public engagement opportunities for City residents, specifically for the Capital and Operating budgets engagement processes Friedman’s last day is November 5 before moving to a new role within the Department of City Planning as the Public Engagement Coordinator to strengthen public participation efforts in the City of Pittsburgh.   Hersh Merenstein has served as the Local Government and Community Relations Coordinator for the Office of Mayor William Peduto since 2020. Merenstein joined the City in 2016 as communications manager for City Council District 8 before joining OCA in 2019. In his time with the city, he has worked on policy, legislation, community engagement and has advocated for residents' quality of life citywide. Some of his accomplishments include:  - Co-authored Mayor Peduto’s Marshall Plan for Middle America - Contributed to crafting the City’s Dark Sky Lighting Ordinance, the first of its kind nationally - Assisted restaurants with developing outdoor seating areas during the height of COVID-19 restrictions to help them safely continue operations during the pandemic Merenstein’s last day with the City was November 3. He will be assuming a new role as Government and Foundation Relations Manager for the Boys &amp; Girls Clubs of Western Pennsylvania. | 5/11/2021 16:57:33 |
| Installation of Raised Crosswalk on Darlington Road Postponed to Next Week | PITTSBURGH, PA (November 5, 2021) The installation of a raised crosswalk for traffic calming on Darlington Road from Wightman Street to Murray Avenue that was expected this weekend will be postponed until next Saturday, November 13. The installation of the raised crosswalk was announced earlier this week. The traffic calming measure works similarly to a speech hump by elevating the wheelbase of a vehicle in order to decrease its speed while providing additional visibility for pedestrians on the ADA-compliant walkable surface. The installation work is now expected to be begin on Saturday, November 13 and is expected to last two days, weather permitting. Hours of construction are Monday through Saturday 7:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. Darlington Road will be closed to all traffic, except local, during construction. Traffic will be detoured to Forbes Avenue or Bartlett Street. Local traffic may experience some short stoppages to safely pass through the work zone. Temporary no parking signage will be posted at the raised crosswalk location.For more information about DOMI's neighborhood traffic calming projects, please visit www.pittsburghpa.gov/domi/traffic-calming. | 5/11/2021 10:28:47 |
| DOMI to Install Speed Humps on Bartlett Street | PITTSBURGH, PA (November 7, 2021) The City of Pittsburgh’s Department of Mobility and Infrastructure (DOMI) will begin working on the Squirrel Hill East-West Connector project on November 8, 2021, with pavement markings and construction of two (2) speed humps on Bartlett Street between Murdoch Street and Serpentine Drive and is expected to last up to two weeks, weather permitting. Intermittently, traffic will be detoured to avoid construction on this segment of Bartlett Street. The detour will be Hobart Street to Beacon Street to Murdoch Street.Some of the project has been delayed until spring 2022. The signs put up in the corridor announcing construction is coming soon are no longer correct. Procurement issues and weather conflicts have caused this delay.This project is part of DOMI’s Move Forward program, which aims to implement DOMI’s Bike+ Plan. The corridor will better connect Schenley Park, including the recently reopened Serpentine Drive, to Frick Park and the bike lanes on Beechwood Boulevard, while also connecting to existing bike lanes on Wightman Street. Traffic calming throughout the corridor and a contra-flow bike lane from Murdoch Street to Shady Avenue will create comfortable, bi-directional travel for cyclists while maintaining existing, legal parking spaces and all existing motor vehicle access.Thank you for your cooperation during this time. We hope there will be only minor inconveniences. If you have any questions or require further information regarding this project, you may contact the City’s Response Center by calling 311 or 412-255-2621. If you have questions about this project or other DOMI Move Forward bike projects, you may contact us by email at moveforwardpgh@gmail.com. You can learn more about DOMI’s Move Forward Program at https://moveforwardpgh.org and DOMI’s Bike+ plan at https://pittsburghpa.gov/domi/bikeplan. | 7/11/2021 11:57:12 |
| City Unveils Boulevard of the Allies Veterans Display Ahead of Roadway's 100th Anniversary | PITTSBURGH, PA (November 8, 2021) Mayor William Peduto and Soldiers &amp; Sailors Memorial Hall &amp; Museum today unveiled a new display recognizing notable Pittsburgh veterans on the Boulevard of the Allies in Downtown Pittsburgh.
The display stretches down the Boulevard from Grant Street to Commonwealth Place and features the images of Pittsburgh veterans from the Civil War through the present day. The display has been unveiled in advance of the City’s Veterans Day Parade on November 11th and the iconic roadway's 100th Anniversary next year.
"Pittsburgh has an incredible history of service to the country," said Mayor Peduto. "There is no better place to recognize these veterans than on the iconic Boulevard of the Allies. The individuals featured span generations of American history and many individuals represent diverse groups who were pioneers for women and people of color in uniformed service."
The Boulevard of the Allies serves as a memorial to all those who participated in the successful termination of the First World War. It was formally dedicated on what was then still known as Armistice Day, November 11, 1922. In addition to the recognition of Pittsburgh veterans, the Department of Mobility &amp; Infrastructure has illuminated the dedication pillars at Grant Street. The pillars were designed by renowned local sculptor Frank Vittor and feature the allegorical figures of victory, strength, and liberty. The ramp leading to the pillars features their dedicatory inscription and the flags of the Principal Allied Powers: the United Kingdom, France, Russia, Italy, Japan, and the United States of America.
“Soldiers &amp; Sailors Memorial Hall &amp; Museum is proud to collaborate with the City on this endeavor," said Tim Neft, Soldiers &amp; Sailors Vice President &amp; Director of Museum Education. "Our team has researched and selected 34 remarkable veterans from the Pittsburgh community. These individuals are all inductees in the Joseph A. Dugan, Jr. Hall of Valor at Soldiers &amp; Sailors which honors veterans, living and deceased, for valor 'above and beyond the call of duty' while in action against the enemy. They truly represent the very best of our city.”
The Pittsburgh veterans selected from the Soldiers &amp; Sailors Memorial Hall &amp; Museum’s Joseph A. Dugan, Jr. Hall of Valor who are featured on the Boulevard of the Allies are:
|     |     |     |     |     |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Rank | First Name | Last Name | Branch | War |
| Colonel | Walter Joseph | Marm | U.S. Army | Vietnam |
| Major General | Francis | Herron | U.S. Army | Civil War |
| Lance Corporal | William | Prom | U.S. Marine Corps | Vietnam |
| Colonel | James | Schnoonmaker | U.S. Army | Civil War |
| First Lieutenant | Walter | Will | U.S. Army | WWII |
| Technical Sergeant | Charles | Kelly | U.S. Army | WWII |
| First Sergeant | Alexander | Kelly | U.S. Army | Civil War |
| Colonel | Sterling | Morelock | U.S. Army | WWI |
| Corporal | William | Morgan | U.S. Marine Corps | Vietnam |
| First Lieutenant | Benjamin | Praeger | U.S. Army | WWI |
| Second Lieutenant | Michael | Hritsik | U.S. Army | WWII |
| First Lieutenant | Christian | Herron | U.S. Army | WWII |
| Lieutenant Colonel | Murray | Shubin | U.S. Air Force | WWII |
| Sergeant | Joseph | Kaper | U.S. Army | WWI |
| Corporal | Jack | Starkey | U.S. Army | Korea |
| Second Lieutenant | Joseph | Terry | U.S. Army | WWII |
| Captain | Robert | Woodside | U.S. Army | WWI |
| Colonel | William | Lober | U.S. Army | Korea |
| Sergeant | Robert | Bock | U.S. Marine Corps | Korea |
| Specialist Four | Vinture | Sciarretti | U.S. Army | Vietnam |
| First Lieutenant | Allan | Moses | U.S. army | WWII |
| Sergeant | Stanislaw | Norkevicus | U.S. Army | WWII |
| Private First Class | Charles | Raiford | U.S. Army | Vietnam |
| Specialist Four | George | Rose | U.S. Army | Vietnam |
| Corporal | Woodall | Marsh | U.S. Army | WWII |
| Captain | James | Puhala | U.S. Army | Vietnam |
| Master Sergeant | Pasquale | Papalia | U.S. Army | Vietnam |
| Sergeant | Michael | Sims | U.S. Army | Vietnam |
| Lieutenant Commander | Joseph | Breslove | U.S. Naval Reserves | WWII |
| Lance Corporal | Clement | Johnson | U.S. Marine Corps | Vietnam |
| First Lieutenant | Anthony | Morrison | U.S. Marine Corps | Korea |
| Staff Sergeant | Daniel | Murphy | U.S. Marine Corps | Korea |
| Major | Teresa | James | U.S. Air Force | WWII |
| Vivandiere | Marie | Tepe Leonard | U.S. Army | Civil War | | 8/11/2021 13:09:13 |
| Additional Peduto Administration Staff Announce Departure from City Government | PITTSBURGH, PA (November 8, 2021) Two additional members of the Peduto Administration have announced their departure from City government.  Philip Savino has served as the Assistant Director of Technology Operations in the Department of Innovation and Performance since 2020. In that time, he has assisted with a major overhaul of network and computer infrastructure, including: - Introducing the City's first Cloud Strategy and migrating 80 % of City computer infrastructure to Google Cloud Platform making the system scalable and increasing access and availability - Managed a full rewiring, WiFi deployment for unified wireless access and faster reliable connectivity at the City-County Building- Started the City' first unified fiber network ( NETPGH) to unify network location across the city preparing for future Smart Cities technologies - Implemented the City first enterprise ITSM (Ticket System) to standardized service management by optimizing and automating processes for delivery of services Savino’s last day will be November 12, 2021 before assuming his new role as the Director of Technology for Arapho County Government in Colorado.  “I’d like to thank Phil for his service to the City of Pittsburgh. In just a short time, he was able to accomplish so many important projects to help grow and support a modernized, 21st century city and our workforce,” said Mayor William Peduto.  Haley Platt has announced her departure from the Mayor’s Office. Platt started as an intern in the Mayor’s Office in 2019 and became the Special Assistant to Mayor Peduto that same year. Platt has been responsible for managing the day-to-day schedule for Mayor Peduto, often coordinating several calendars for city principals, elected officials, national and international guests and local partners and stakeholders. Some of Platt’s contributions include: - Organized and hosted a four-day Marshall Plan for Middle America kick-off summit with private and public sector stakeholders from our region and around the world - Assisted in writing an Executive Order to allow the possession of fentanyl test strips- Managed the Mayor’s Office return to work in 2021 - Oversaw the Mayor’s Office internship program, managing several interns in both in-person and remote environments “It is no easy task to coordinate and manage a complicated schedule, and Haley became the backbone of our office making sure that events and meetings happened smoothly,” the Mayor said.  Platt’s last day with the City is today. On November 9 she will start as the Government Affairs Coordinator for the Greater Pittsburgh Chamber of Commerce and Allegheny Conference on Community Development. | 8/11/2021 15:51:34 |
| Mayor Peduto Presents 2022 Budgets to City Council |  | 8/11/2021 12:06:52 |
| Mayor Peduto Presents State of the City and 2022 Budgets to City Council | PITTSBURGH, PA (November 8, 2021) Mayor William Peduto formally presented his 2022 budgets to City Council today in his final State of the City Budget Address. He has proposed a $613,226,785 operating budget and $158,619,522 capital budget with no proposed tax increases.  Despite the financial forecast associated with the long term economic effects of the pandemic, Mayor Peduto’s proposed budgets include historic investments in infrastructure and city assets, including $17.6 million for street paving, concrete slab replacement and ADA ramps; $12.1 million to invest in electric vehicles for the City fleet; funding for the deployment of free blue recycling bins in the south and west neighborhoods; and significant increases in funding for traffic calming and vision zero safety improvements, landslide remediation, parks and recreation centers.  The budgets include flood control projects on Braywood Way, Dragoon Way, Stewart Avenue and Haverhill Street and landslide remediation on El Paso Street, Serptentine Road Wall, Riverview Park, Mount Washington and Upper Panther Hollow Trail.  It also includes improvements in the following park facilities:  - Olympia Park Building - Herschel Park Field Improvements and Lighting - New Mellon Park Tennis Bubble - Garland Playground Reconstruction - West Penn Playground Reconstruction - Washington's Landing Tennis Court Replacement - Sheraden Park Phase 1 Construction - Arsenal Park Phase 1 Construction - Chadwick Playground - East Hills Playground - Manchester Field Improvements - New Manchester Spray Park - Oakwood Playground - Spring Hill Park Reconstruction - Upper McKinley Playground - McBride Dek Hockey New Bleachers and Lighting - Moore Pool Building Renovations - Oliver Bath House Renovations - Highland Park Tennis Courts Reconstruction - Anderson Playground Reconstruction - Lederman Field Lighting - Four Mile Run Playground Improvements - Lewis Park Improvements - Fort Pitt Park Phase 1 In addition, the budgets commit funding to the following recreation centers for Rec2Tech:  - McKinley Rec Center - Cowley Rec Center - Jefferson Rec Center - Phillips Rec Center - Warrington Rec Center - New Thaddeus Stevens Rec Center  - Robert E Williams Rec Center  The budget also includes traffic signal upgrades at 5th and Shady Avenues, Penn and Highland Avenues, Brownsville Road and McKinley Street and Ellsworth Avenue at Aiken Avenue and these Complete Streets projects: - Penn Avenue Phase 2 Construction - Smithfield Street Phase 1 Construction - Centre Avenue Corridor Improvements - North Avenue Corridor Reconstruction  - Allegheny Green Blvd Phase 1 Construction - City facility improvement projects are planned for:  - Medic 4 - Mellon Park Marshall Mansion - Hazelwood Senior Center - Brighton Heights Senior Center - New Public Works 1st Division  - Fire Station 19 Renovations  - Fire Station 8/Old Zone 5 Renovations  - Saw Mill Run Salt Domes - 62nd Street Warehouse Expansion - City County Building Bathroom Renovations In this final State of the Budget Budget Address, Mayor Peduto focused on the foundations his administration has worked on for the past eight years in responsible financial practices, modernizing operations, institutionalizing equity and furthering sustainability. A full transcript of his address is available here. A video of the address will be available on the City Channel Pittsburgh's YouTube channel.The 2022 Operating Budget is available here. The 2022 Capital Budget is available here. | 8/11/2021 12:12:24 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Monday, November 8, 2021 | Delivering State of the City and Budget Address to City CouncilTime: 10 a.m.Location: City Council Chamber and livestream on YouTubeUnveiling Veteran Banners on Boulevard of the AlliesTime: 12:30 p.m.Location: Corner of Grant Street and Boulevard of the Allies | 8/11/2021 09:04:20 |
| City Offices Closed for Veterans Day, Road Closures for Veterans Day Parade This Thursday | PITTSBURGH, PA (November 9, 2021) City of Pittsburgh administrative offices will be closed this Thursday, November 11 in observance of Veterans Day.  There will be no interruption to refuse and recycling collection, so residents should follow their regularly scheduled collection.  Citiparks facilities will have the following operations changes on Thursday: - All Healthy Active Living (Senior) Centers will be closed - All recreation centers will be closed. The After-School Food Program will resume on Friday, November 12 - Mellon Park Tennis Center will be OPEN from 7 a.m. to 10 p.m. Senior Grab &amp; Go Meals will not be affected since they are distributed Monday, Wednesday and Friday.  Spray parks, pools, Oliver Bath House and Schenley Skating Rink are all under seasonal closures.  There will be road closures associated with the Veterans Day Parade. Liberty Avenue between 10th and 26th Streets will close at 9:00 a.m. The parade starts at 10:30 a.m. and will march from 10th Street and Liberty Avenue, down Liberty Avenue ending at Commonwealth Place. Parking along the parade route and staging area on Liberty will be restricted.  Additional parade information can be found here. | 9/11/2021 09:37:50 |
| City Reaches Deal with Comcast to Bring Media Hubs to Ammon, Warrington and Thaddeus Stevens Rec Centers and Upgrade PCTV and City Channel to HD | PITTSBURGH, PA (November 9, 2021) The Office of Mayor William Peduto and the City Department of Innovation &amp; Performance have announced a new 10-year agreement with Comcast for a cable franchise renewal package that will include technology investments in Ammon, Warrington and the new Thaddeus Stevens Rec2Tech centers, upgrading City Channel and PCTV to high definition (HD) and additional benefits.  Comcast will support establishing digital media hubs at Ammon, Warrington and Stevens Recreation Centers where residents of all ages can use digital technology tools, including the ability to create video programming that can be broadcast live to the City’s public access channel. Additional mini-media labs will be created at additional recreation centers throughout the city.  “We are grateful for the continued partnership with Comcast in helping us to bridge the digital divide in our city. With their support, we will be able to deliver modernized services to our neighborhoods, give residents the opportunity to create cable programs and improve the quality of digital city services,” Mayor Peduto said. The Rec2Tech support provided by Comcast is part of a larger package of funding which includes the City Channel and PCTV. Comcast will provide an upfront grant of $475,000 and an annual grant that, based on Comcast’s current subscribership in the City, would generate an addition $4.4 million over 10 years.  The agreement also includes: - Comcast will continue to pay franchise fees to the City in the amount of 5% of its gross revenues derived from cable services in the City - Comcast will continue to provide a private institutional network (I-Net) serving the City’s public safety facilities until the launch of the City’s upcoming NetPGH network- Comcast will continue to provide comprehensive customer service standards  “We value our strong relationship with the City of Pittsburgh and are proud to serve its residents and businesses with our innovative products and services,” said Alka Patel, Vice President of Government and External Affairs for Comcast’s Keystone Region. The Comcast franchise renewal agreement is subject to review and approval by City Council after a public hearing. The City is also currently in negotiations with its other cable operator, Verizon, and hopes to complete an agreement with Verizon early next year. | 9/11/2021 13:08:49 |
| Mayor Peduto Introduces Office of Immigrant and Refugee Affairs | PITTSBURGH, PA (November 9, 2021) Mayor William Peduto has proposed creating a permanent city office to support immigrant, refugee and new American communities with the Office of Immigrant and Refugee Affairs. The office will continue the work started by Mayor Peduto’s Welcoming Pittsburgh initiative to create an advocacy support network to improve the quality of life and improve city services for immigrants and refugees.  As the city’s immigrant population grows, with a 67% increase in the Hispanic, Latinx and multi-racial population in Allegheny County, the Office of Immigrant and Refugee Affairs will continue the implementation of the Welcoming Pittsburgh Roadmap, a comprehensive citywide plan for immigrant, refugee and New American advocacy compiled by 40 leaders from diverse sectors and over 3,000 community members.  Some of the work accomplished from the Roadmap includes establishing a citywide language interpretation and translation service so all residents can access city information for free and the development of a multi-cultural training for public safety to effectively engage with immigrant communities. Welcoming Pittsburgh has already established a large network of immigrant community leaders, groups, members and advocacy groups that meets regularly to share resources.  Additional work that the Office of Immigrant and Refugee Affairs would build off of include: - Creating a cash assistance program to distribute over $500,000 to immigrant and refugee residents who did not receive a federal stimulus payment - Opened the Pittsburgh Hispanic Development Corporation start-up incubator in the Beechview neighborhood - Assisted Casa San Jose in securing a property in the Beechview business district to redevelop into an office and community space - Implemented new initiatives to support housing and immigrant- and refugee-owned businesses as part of the national Welcoming Economies pilot- Created a new unbiased policing policy to not initiate contact with ICE    The new office will continue to advise departments on immigrant and refugee engagement strategies, welcoming new residents, work with partner organizations and agencies, advocate for policy reform and celebrate the diversity of civic, cultural and economic life that immigrants and refugees bring to the city.  The legislation was presented to City Council yesterday. | 9/11/2021 15:00:52 |
| Additional Streets to be Milled and Paved This Week | PITTSBURGH, PA (November 9, 2021) The Department of Mobility and Infrastructure has announced that additional streets will be milled and paved this week. In addition to the streets announced last week, the following streets will be milled: Lowrie St, Schick St, Garrison Pl, Gettysburg St and Kensington St.  Oakley Way will be paved this week.  The full paving schedule for the week, including further details on streets and intersections, is available here. | 9/11/2021 17:25:47 |
| Mayor Peduto Attends COP26 and Highlights Local 2030 Climate Goal Achievements | PITTSBURGH, PA (November 9, 2021) Mayor William Peduto is joining world leaders for the United Nations Climate Change Conference (COP26) in Glasgow, Scotland this week, having been asked to join the local Pittsburgh delegation, representing ICLEI – Local Governments for Sustainability nationally and being selected to represent the Global Covenant of Mayors for Climate Energy on the international level. At COP26, Mayor Peduto will have the opportunity to discuss Pittsburgh’s local progress towards the 2030 climate action goals. Mayor Peduto attended the 2015 COP21 talks in Paris, France which resulted in the Paris Agreement. Mayor Peduto committed Pittsburgh to follow the agreement on the local level, outlined in the following 2030 goals: - Reduce citywide emissions by 50% - Reduce energy and water use in the city by 50% - Reduce greenhouse gas emissions from transportation by 50% - Become a zero-waste city  Additionally, the City of Pittsburgh committed to improving its operations by creating a series of 2030 municipal goals: - Utilize 100% renewable energy in all City facilities - Create a fossil-fuel-free City fleet - Divest City pension funds from the fossil fuel industry In the six years since these goals were established, the Peduto Administration’s Office of Sustainability and Resilience Division has worked with departments and offices to make rapid progress on these goals, including: - Adopting the Climate Action Plan 3.0, a comprehensive strategy to reduce greenhouse gas emissions within the City limits and within City operations to lessen Pittsburgh’s contribution to global climate change. - Passing a Net Zero Ready Building Ordinance, requiring all new or renovated City government buildings to be net-zero energy (NZE) ready meaning they consume only as much energy as they produce. - Divesting the City Pension from fossil fuels, firearms, ammunition and for-profit prisons to prioritize investments that protect the environment, reduce arms production and promote human dignity through the Socially Responsible Investing Program Guidelines. - Purchasing 100 percent renewable electricity for all City facilities, via renewable energy credits, with regional partners in the Western Pennsylvania Energy Consortium. - Distributing over 100,000 blue recycling bins to residents of all single-family homes and apartment buildings with fewer than five units to help achieve zero waste goals. Bins have been distributed to Pittsburgh’s central and eastern neighborhoods, and residents of southern, western, and northern neighborhoods will receive bins in 2022. - Launching the ForgingPGH Comprehensive Planning process to guide land use in Pittsburgh over the next 20 years that will integrate climate considerations into development decisions. - Implementing climate impact scoring into the City budgeting process to measure a project’s potential to address climate change. - Assessing climate risk for Pittsburgh, which examines the city’s changing weather patterns and identifies how the City can adapt infrastructure investments and operations. The assessment identified four key areas to address as we adapt to a new climate: warming temperatures and erratic temperature swings, overall wetter weather including more intense storms, increased invasive species and pests and poorer air quality. - Transitioning all city streetlights to LED, which will reduce streetlight energy usage by 40-50% - Piloting compost collection initiatives to minimize the amount of organic waste in landfills, reduce mileage for refuse vehicles and promote healthy soil ecosystems citywide. - Establishing Hays Woods as protected land to maintain a significant portion of Pittsburgh’s tree canopy, encourage the growth of its unique ecological system and provide residents with a large regional park. Moving forward, the City will continue to integrate sustainability and resilience into City processes. To accomplish this and the 2030 climate goals, the City is building priority-based budgeting into the City’s budget process, releasing an energy strategy to create a framework for the 2030 goals and Electric Vehicle (EV) legislation to accelerate EV deployment across Pittsburgh. | 9/11/2021 16:37:30 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Tuesday, November 9, 2021 | Mayor William Peduto is representing the City of Pittsburgh and North America on behalf of the Global Covenant of Mayors for Climate and Energy in Glasgow, Scotland this week for the United Nations Conference of the Parties Climate Change Conference (COP 26). This climate change conference is a critical summit for global climate action, where collaboration enhances ambitious climate action. Collaboration across communities is pivotal for limiting emissions and adapting to climate change impacts through multilevel climate action during and after COP26. COP26 brings United Nations member States together to accelerate action towards the goals of the Paris Agreement and the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change. Over 120 heads of state are attending the conference, including U.S. President Joe Biden and 13 cabinet members and high-ranking officials to the summit as a demonstration of U.S. commitment to climate change – including veteran climate diplomat John Kerry and former U.S. President Barack Obama.Mayor Peduto is joined by Chief Resilience Officer Grant Ervin and a contingent of local non-profit, education and other institutions from Pittsburgh. The representatives have several engagements throughout the week, including a Sister Cities signing between Glasgow and Pittsburgh, a high-performance buildings thought leaders discussion, a roundtable on creating resilient cities, and much more. The City of Pittsburgh is also a finalist for the Climate Challenge Cup, which will be awarded at COP26.Mayor Peduto's trip is not being paid for through taxpayer dollars. | 9/11/2021 10:38:15 |
| Pittsburgh Wins Second Place in International Climate Challenge Cup at COP26 | PITTSBURGH, PA (November 10, 2021) The City of Pittsburgh has won second place in an international competition called the Climate Challenge Cup as part of COP26. The award was presented to Mayor William Peduto and Chief Resilience Officer Grant Ervin in the “Achieving Net Zero” category for the Marshall Plan for Middle America today in Glasgow, Scotland.   The Climate Challenge Cup is a new international competition showcasing transformative civic research partnerships between research bodies, civic organizations and local communities to combat climate change. It brings together knowledge and experience from across the United Kingdom and United States to create a network of innovators helping affected communities adapt to climate change or achieve net zero.   There were 12 project finalists from around the United Kingdom and United states in two categories. The City of Pittsburgh was the only organization to be a finalist in both categories.  The Climate Challenge Cup is supported by the United Kingdom’s Department for Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy in partnership with the City of Glasgow, The Young Foundation, MetroLab Network, UK Science and Innovation Network, Innovate UK, University of Glasgow and Vertigo Ventures.   A full video of the awards presentation is available here, with Mayor Peduto and Chief Ervin’s remarks near 2:12:00 mark. | 10/11/2021 16:34:51 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Wednesday, November 10, 2021 | Today, Mayor William Peduto is attending the COP26 in Scotland. COP26 brings United Nations member states together to accelerate action towards the goals of the Paris Agreement and the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change. This climate change conference is a critical summit for global climate action, where collaboration enhances ambitious climate action. Collaboration across communities is pivotal for limiting emissions and adapting to climate change impacts through multilevel climate action during and after COP26. Today, Mayor Peduto will be attending the SDCL Panels and the Climate Challenge Cup Awards, for which Pittsburgh has two finalist projects out of the 12 finalists total. Mayor Peduto's trip is not being paid for through taxpayer dollars. | 10/11/2021 09:18:54 |
| A Statement from Mayor William Peduto on SB 448 and SB 565 | Mayor William Peduto today released the following statement on SB 448 and SB 565 currently under consideration by the Pennsylvania Senate:“Pittsburgh knows all too well the dangers of gun violence. Instead of working to pass meaningful and popular common-sense reforms to address gun violence, the State Senate has voted to expand concealed carry and to punish municipalities and cities who act to keep their residents safe when those in Harrisburg refuse to. I want to thank Governor Wolf for vowing to veto both of these dangerous bills and standing up for the common-sense reform Pittsburghers and Pennsylvanians need and deserve.” | 10/11/2021 11:46:50 |
| City to Relocate DPW First Division from Riverview Park to River Avenue in Northside | PITTSBURGH, PA (November 10, 2021) The Office of Mayor Peduto has presented legislation to City Council to acquire property from the Urban Redevelopment Authority of Pittsburgh (URA) that will serve as the future home of the Department of Public Works (DPW) 1st Division.  This is the first step in relocating the current 1st Division, which provides all DPW street operations on the North Side, from its current location in Riverview Park. This new facility will be net zero and follow the construction of the South Hills' new net-zero 4th Division building. "This is a win-win. The hard working employees of Public Works need a new state of the art facility to support their work and this will allow us to cleanup the park and return this space to park users," said Mayor William Peduto The City worked with the community, who called for the division to be moved from the popularly-used park.  “Moving DPW First Division out of Riverview Park—our only regional park in the Northside—is a big win for everyone,” said City Councilman Bobby Wilson. “The eventual relocation of the First Division will move heavy machinery and temporary trash storage out of our beautiful park. DPW First Division does excellent work maintaining public infrastructure and providing services on the Northside, Downtown, and the Strip District. I’m excited for this first step of moving them into a new and modern facility on River Avenue. Thank you to Mayor William Peduto and the URA for helping me restore Riverview Park!” “We are happy that the City is moving forward to relocate the Public Works depot from Riverview Park,” said Mark Masterson, Chair of Friends of Riverview Park. “This will strengthen the connection to the park for the Marshall-Shadeland neighborhood.  We want to thank Mayor Peduto and his staff for their work to improve Riverview Park." | 10/11/2021 11:29:02 |
| City of Pittsburgh Announces Second Voluntary Local Review of Sustainable Development Goals | PITTSBURGH, PA (November 10, 2021) The City of Pittsburgh has released its second Voluntary Local Review (VLR) of the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), which the City adopted in 2019. The 2021 review builds off the information and recommendations from the initial review and focuses specifically on City Procurement, considering initiatives and contracts funded by or through the City. VLRs provide a framework for the City to integrate SDGs into its work, keep a record of the City’s actions, measure progress and highlight opportunities for growth. The first VLR, published in November 2020, laid the groundwork for Pittsburgh’s alignment with the SDGs by localizing the 17 universal goals to eradicate poverty, protect the planet and improve the quality of life for every human being. The review also provided an overview of the City’s sustainable initiatives and policies and recommended future steps.  The 2021 VLR sets a framework for sustainable procurement: buy local, sustainable, ethical and circular. The projects listed may have received funding from the City’s Capital Budget, Operating Budget, federal/state/nonprofit grants or through public-private partnerships. It also analyzes four key areas of City spending: - City Initiatives and Related Professional/Non-Professional Services - Commodities, Equipment and Utilities Contracts - American Rescue Plan Funds Allocations - Financial Investment Strategies  “The Voluntary Local Review process serves as a periodic report card on Pittsburgh’s progress towards collectively achieving these Sustainable Development Goals by 2030,” said Grant Ervin, Chief Resilience Officer. “We are partnering with nonprofits, universities and philanthropies to implement these goals and improve outcomes for all residents in the region.” The City’s adoption of the SDGs and the development of the VLR is a cross-departmental partnership between the Department of City Planning, Office of Management &amp; Budget, Mayor’s Office of Equity, Commission on Human Relations and Gender Equity Commission to incorporate SDGs into Procurement and Community Development. For example, in September 2020, the City of Pittsburgh adopted “Socially Responsible Investing” guidelines to ensure that pension investments in companies are divested from fossil fuels, for profit prisons, firearms and ammunition. Adopting the SDGs and conducting the VLR demonstrates Pittsburgh’s leadership in thinking global and acting local. It connects our communities throughout the region by promoting equitable and resilient solutions for all while also plugging Pittsburgh into a global support network of cities looking to lead the way to a sustainable future.    The City of Pittsburgh’s 2021 VLR can be viewed here and last year's VLR is available here.  | 10/11/2021 14:38:49 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Thursday, November 11, 2021 | Mayor William Peduto is attending the COP26 in Scotland. COP26 brings United Nations member states together to accelerate action towards the goals of the Paris Agreement and the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change. This climate change conference is a critical summit for global climate action, where collaboration enhances ambitious climate action. Collaboration across communities is pivotal for limiting emissions and adapting to climate change impacts through multilevel climate action during and after COP26. Today, Mayor Peduto will be attending and speaking at several sessions. Mayor Peduto's trip is not being paid for through taxpayer dollars. | 11/11/2021 09:30:52 |
| Pittsburgh and Glasgow Finalize Sister City Agreement at COP26 | PITTSBURGH, PA (November 11, 2021) The Cities of Pittsburgh and Glasgow finalized their exciting new partnership as sister cities in-person today, following a virtual signing ceremony last year. The meeting today between Mayor William Peduto and Leader of Glasgow City Council Susan Aitken formalizes a long-valued relationship between the two cities and is the next step in creating a strong connection between Pittsburgh and Glasgow. Pittsburgh and Glasgow were both forged in an industrial past, situated on rivers, and are poised to lead the way on shared goals around environmental, racial justice, and economic and social equity agendas. The cities’ share leadership and goals in innovation, environmental sustainability, racial justice and economic and social equity in health, and wellbeing. “The long-established Scottish connection to Pittsburgh has been strengthened in recent years as we’ve shared the challenges of industrial heritage, built a renewed strength through a shared resilience journey and now seek to collaborate further through a sister cities arrangement. We are working together to address issues of climate change, health inequality and building more equitable prosperity," Mayor William Peduto said. This historic in-person signing comes while Glasgow is hosting the COP26, which Mayor Peduto and a Pittsburgh delegation are attending. The teams in Pittsburgh and Glasgow that have been working on this sister city relationship have been developing climate, innovation and sustainability goals together. Leader of Glasgow City Council, Susan Aitken said: “Glasgow and Pittsburgh were titans of the industrial age – with global reputations for ships, built on the Clyde, and the mills that lined the rivers of the Steel City. Both endured very similar slumps in our fortunes as heavy industry faltered. Many thousands of jobs were lost; populations declined, and the health of citizens suffered. What is arguably more remarkable is the way our cities have fought back from these challenges over recent decades; with both drawing on their resilience to address the economic, social and physical legacies of our industrial past."“We have already learned a lot from each other," Leader Aitken continued, "but this partnership will draw Glasgow and Pittsburgh closer together than ever before – and provides an opportunity for us to show real leadership on the climate emergency and building back from the Covid-19 pandemic in a way that prioritizes economic, social and environmental justice for all our people." Pittsburgh currently has Sister Cities in 18 different countries. Cities with active engagement beyond Glasgow include Saitama City, Japan; Bilbao, Spain; Wuhan, China; and Da Nang, Vietnam. Glasgow has recently established partner and frontrunner city relationships with Santiago, Chile and Berlin, Germany. “Now more than ever it is important for cities to have strong global partners. By partnering with cities like Glasgow, Pittsburgh can promote our innovation economy to the world and open up opportunities for our region. We are excited to work with the team in Glasgow and look forward to a long and prosperous relationship” said Grant Ervin, the City of Pittsburgh’s Chief Resilience Officer. This new partnership came about with the assistance of the Sister Cities Association of Pittsburgh (SCAP). SCAP, like other like organizations across the US and world; seeks beneficial two-way partnerships with cities across the globe through economic, cultural and educational exchanges with cities that share commonalities, challenges and opportunities.  ABOUT SISTER CITIES ASSOCIATION OF PITTSBURGHSister Cities Association of Pittsburgh connects the Pittsburgh region with international partner cities to develop mutually beneficial relationships in the area of commerce, education and culture; and to work together to address and solve global challenges facing cities of tomorrow.  | 11/11/2021 11:38:08 |
| Peduto Administration Submits Electric Vehicle Readiness Ordinance to Support Electric Vehicle Charging to Reduce Emissions | PITTSBURGH, PA (November 11, 2021) As the market and demand for electric vehicles (EVs) grows, the Office of Mayor William Peduto and Department of City Planning Sustainability and Resilience Division are introducing an EV Readiness Ordinance to City Council next week as a commitment to meeting the current and anticipated demand for EVs throughout the City. This ordinance was developed with technical assistance from the Electrification Coalition through Pittsburgh’s participation in the American Cities Climate Challenge.  The City is dedicated to addressing the threat of climate change and improving air quality by implementing more sustainable practices across Pittsburgh. The EV Charging Strategic Plan for Pittsburgh Public Facilities, which was developed in 2020, aims to increase the total number of new public charging plugs to more than 200 on City property and more than 2,000 total across the city by 2025. The City is also working towards the goal of operating a fossil-fuel-free fleet by 2030.  In 2019, an Intradepartmental EV Task Force was formed to manage fleet and public charging infrastructure projects, plan for public charging and find supplemental funding. The task force includes designated staff from the Sustainability and Resilience Division, Office of Management and Budget, Fleet Services, Public Parking Authority of Pittsburgh (PPA), Department of Permits Licensing and Inspections and the Department of Public Works.   Since 2016, the City has received more than $1.1 million in grant funding, which has supplemented the conversion of the City fleet to electric, with a new publicly accessible DC fast charging project in East Liberty in the planning stages. The City currently operates the largest EV fleet in Western PA with 26 EVs and plans to incorporate 36 more. In 2022, the City will begin to convert pickups, vans and refuse trucks to electric. "Our region is emerging as a leader in clean energy and sustainability and as we work towards our climate action goals, we need to ready our City facilities to provide our fleet as well as the public with opportunities to charge electric vehicles," said Mayor Peduto. "Providing electric vehicle charging stations at city facilities, and with partners citywide, will allow our residents to join us in improving our air quality and reducing emissions." With the EV Readiness Ordinance, new and renovated City-owned facilities will now have electrical capacity and equipment installed simultaneously with construction to develop the necessary infrastructure to support both the City fleet's EVs and encourage public charging on City property. Laying the infrastructure at the time of construction creates efficiency and significantly reduces costs overall. The EV Task Force will decide on the installation of level 2 and DC Fast Charging stations to meet the City’s needs and ensure that all upgrades to City facilities incorporate make-ready infrastructure to accommodate EV chargers.  About the Electrification CoalitionThe Electrification Coalition is a national non-profit focused on scaling and implementing a broad set of strategies to drive widespread adoption of electric vehicles. These strategies include policy development, advocacy campaigns, consumer education, fleet electrification, cultivation of bipartisan support, community electrification planning, EV supply chain development, and coalition building. | 11/11/2021 14:11:16 |
| Peduto Administration Submits Two Sustainable Procurement Laws | PITTSBURGH, PA (November 12, 2021) The Peduto Administration has introduced two ordinances to City Council to help Pittsburgh transition to sustainable consumption and production through innovative procurement practices. The first ordinance will mandate the use of electronic signatures across City departments and the second addresses sustainable and socially responsible procurement. Throughout the COVID-19 pandemic, the City of Pittsburgh, like workplaces around the world, shifted to policies that ensured continued productivity including the shift to electronic signatures, which helped to increase efficiency, reduce waste, and decrease the likelihood of documents being lost in transit while awaiting signatures. Through two years utilizing DocuSign and electronic signatures, the City has saved approximately: 35,862 lbs. of wood (approximately 108 trees), 105,591 gallons of water (approximately 75 washing machines), 84,174 lbs. of Carbon (approximately 9 cars), and 5,826 lbs. of waste (approximately 96 trash cans). These savings have encouraged a permanent shift to electronic signatures through this ordinance.  As the second city in the United States to join the Global Lead City Network on Sustainable Procurement, the City of Pittsburgh is committed to using its purchasing power to address climate change and advance equity. The Sustainable and Socially Responsible Procurement ordinances will codify the City’s procurement practices, ensuring that tax dollars are used to support environmentally and socially responsible vendors. Other changes include: - A new definition for sustainable procurement  - Definitions for environmentally preferable and socially responsible product - Factors for reviewing proposals such as transportation distance and product repurposing - Requirement of a Sustainability, Diversity, and Inclusion profile for some vendors in RFPs and ITQs - Updates to the code related to paper products, electronics, lighting, furniture, and office supplies to match modern environmental standards This work is inspired by the Global Lead City Network on Sustainable Procurement (GLCN), a group of 15 cities around the world committed to implementing innovative procurement practices to drive the transition to sustainable consumption and production. “Our Procurement division has worked to create more equitable and accessible processes for procurement over the past few years and we are pleased to introduce additional sustainability standards so that we are responsibly investing taxpayer money in vendors, companies and products that support our climate action goals,” said Mayor William Peduto.  Links to each ordinance can be found here and here. | 12/11/2021 15:24:06 |
| City Announces Traffic Restrictions for Delivery and Installation of 106th Christmas Tree and Holiday Festivities at the City-County Building | PITTSBURGH, PA (November 12, 2021) The City of Pittsburgh’s Department of Public Works advises that one lane of Grant Street will be closed between Fourth and Forbes Avenues, from 8:00 A.M. to 5:00 P.M. Saturday, November 13th and Sunday, November 14th, to allow the Forestry Division to transport and install the 106th City of Pittsburgh Christmas Tree at the City-County Building.   Drivers can expect temporary lane and road closures beginning at 8:00 A.M. on Ollie Street in the Lincoln Place neighborhood. There may also be delays along Mifflin Road, the Glenwood Bridge, Irvine Street, and Second Avenue as the tree is escorted Downtown. About Pittsburgh’s 106th Christmas TreeThe 106th City of Pittsburgh Christmas Tree has been donated by the Fuga Family from the Lincoln Place neighborhood. While Lincoln Place has been home to the tree for decades, the tree is actually returning to Downtown Pittsburgh.  In the 1990's, the blue spruce was one of two small decorative trees that sat outside of the Pennsylvanian at Grant Street and Liberty Avenue. Mr. Chris Fuga, a former employee of the Pennsylvanian, took the two pine trees home following the holiday season. He planted both trees in his front yard, but only one survived and flourished. The Fuga family started a tradition to decorate the tree every holiday season, until it became too big to continue decorating. Now over twenty years later, the tree is returning to Downtown Pittsburgh.   “It was like our tree was practicing for all of its life for this moment,” said Mr. Fuga.  The tree will serve as Pittsburgh’s official Christmas tree through the New Year. The erection of a Christmas tree at the City-County Building remains one of Downtown’s oldest traditions. The first tree was erected on the construction site of the City-County Building in 1914.  “It’s bittersweet to see the tree Downtown. It represents so many great childhood memories for our family, but I’m glad it will bring joy to so many others this holiday season,” said Carly Fuga, Mr. Fuga’s youngest daughter.  Annual Christmas Tree Lighting Ceremony and Holiday Festivities at the City-County BuildingThe annual City of Pittsburgh Christmas Tree Lighting Ceremony and City-County Building light show will take place on a new date and at a new time this year during the return of the Downtown Pittsburgh Partnership's Highmark Light Up Night celebrations.  The ceremonies will take place on Grant Street in front of the City-County Building beginning at 4 P.M. on Saturday, November 20th, and feature River City Brass, Texture Contemporary Ballet, Pittsburgh CLO Holiday Melody, and Pitches and Tones. The 106th Christmas Tree will be lit at 5 PM and feature rooftop fireworks for the first time. The musically timed City-County Building Holiday Lightshow will also perform at 5:20, 6:45, and 8:00 PM. For more details visit: https://pittsburghpa.gov/events/index.htmlThe Gingerbread House Competition will return to the City-County Building on November 20. The 19th annual event will bring the 60 award-winning houses to be displayed behind glass on the Grant Street Portico of the City-County Building. The portico is open to the public around the clock and the winning creations will be available for viewing until early January. Learn more here.  For the full schedule of events for Highmark Light Up Night by the Pittsburgh Downtown Partnership visit: https://downtownpittsburghholidays.com/The City of Pittsburgh will also be hosting the annual Menorah Lighting on Monday, November 29, 2021. Mayor William Peduto will be joined by community leaders to light the candles for the second night of Hannukah as the menorah serves as a beacon of light, symbolizing freedom and peace for all. The celebration will include live music and refreshments. Learn more here. | 12/11/2021 11:26:38 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Friday, November 12 - Sunday, November 14, 2021 | With COP26 having wrapped up, Mayor William Peduto is traveling today to Dunfermline, Scotland which is the birthplace of Andrew Carnegie. This evening, he will meet with leaders from the Carnegie Dunfermline Trust before touring the Andrew Carnegie Birthplace Museum tomorrow. Andrew Carnegie was born in a cottage in Dunfermline before moving to Allegheny City, now Pittsburgh's Northside, in 1848. He worked several jobs before becoming an entrepreneur and eventually the self-made wealthy philanthropist.Following the tour, Mayor Peduto will tour Pittencrief Park and visit Pittencrief House, the childhood home of Brigadier General John Forbes, who commanded Fort Duquesne during the Seven Years War. After seizing Fort Duquesne, Forbes informed British Statesman William Pitt that he had given his name to the newly captured fort, Fort Pitt, whereby naming the City of Pittsburgh. Mayor Peduto will meet with the Provost of Fife and other civic leaders tomorrow evening. He will joing them Sunday for a Remembrance Sunday event at Dunfermline Abbey, where he has been invited to lay a poppy wreath on behalf of the people of Pittsburgh. | 12/11/2021 12:20:36 |
| URA and Historic Deutschtown Development Corporation Select Two Partners for Redevelopment in East Ohio Street Business District | PITTSBURGH, PA (November 12, 2021) The City of Pittsburgh and Urban Redevelopment Authority of Pittsburgh (URA) have partnered with the Historic Deutschtown Development Corporation (HDDC) on the redevelopment of three contiguous properties in the East Allegheny neighborhood and East Ohio Street business district.  Two of the properties, 624 and 628 E Ohio Street, are currently owned by the URA and 620 E Ohio Street is currently owned by the HDDC. Teams from both the URA and the community-based organization reviewed proposals for redevelopment of the properties and have selected R. Kyndall and Fulani Development Group.  "This redevelopment project will bring new opportunities for retail and office space to the E Ohio Street business corridor, in line with the community's vision for their neighborhood business district," said Mayor William Peduto. "I'd like to thank the community, HDDC, URA, R. Kyndall and Fulani Development Group for their partnership on this project." The $4.9 million proposed redevelopment of the 13,240 square foot combined parcel will include retail space on the first floor and add a second and third story for commercial office space with ADA accessibility. The spaces will be constructed as “vanilla shell,” meaning the walls, flooring, ceilings, lighting and plumbing will be finished to save cost on tenant buildouts.  "I'm excited for the redevelopment of these vacant properties on East Ohio Street,” said City Councilman Bobby Wilson. “This is a substantial investment in one of the great Main Streets in the City of Pittsburgh. Though the construction of I-279 nearly broke the spine of this historic Northside business district, investments like this will help us continue to revitalize East Ohio Street. I am looking forward to working with the community to attract stable and successful retail and commercial tenants at these properties."  The partnership with R. Kyndall and Fulani Development group will be presented to the URA Board at their meeting next Tuesday. Both redevelopment partners will continue to work with community stakeholders to attract retail and professional jobs to the East Ohio business district.  Potential renderings of the redevelopment project. | 12/11/2021 14:10:48 |
| Paving Resumes Monday | PITTSBURGH, PA (November 12, 2021) The City of Pittsburgh Department of Mobility and Infrastructure (DOMI) is continuing its 2021 paving program next week.     There will be no milling next week, but streets being paved include: Deely St, Marland Way, Little St, Frampton Ave, Garrison Pl, 20th St, Martha St, Old Ln, Kensington St, Gettysburg St, Filmore St and Fall Way. The full paving schedule for the week, including further details on streets and intersections, is available here. This year the City is investing well over $16 million in the street resurfacing program, which supports asphalt street resurfacing, ADA curb ramp upgrades on paved streets, and repair of concrete, brick and block stone streets throughout Pittsburgh. Over 57 miles of streets will be resurfaced this year. Additional mileage will be resurfaced through cooperation agreements with local public utilities. Mechanical patching will improve many miles more by addressing particular trouble spots on otherwise acceptable street corridors.  While many residents are continuing to work from home, the City will be continuing extra efforts to notify residents to move their vehicles to enable street resurfacing to proceed. Streets scheduled for resurfacing will be posted weekly on DOMI’s website and will be publicized through city social media channels. | 12/11/2021 16:01:33 |
| Pittsburgh Creates Energy Strategy to Address Climate Action in City Development Reviews | PITTSBURGH, PA (November 13, 2021) As the Office of Mayor William Peduto closes out a week of environmental initiatives and Mayor Peduto’s attendance at COP26, the Department of City Planning’s Sustainability and Resilience Division has finalized the City Energy Strategy, Pittsburgh’s first municipal energy plan. The strategy was developed to integrate the short- and long-term actions in the Climate Action Plan into the City’s development review processes to help reach the goal of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 50 percent by 2030. Over the next four years, the City Energy Strategy will integrate energy plans into planning and development review to evaluate energy systems decisions early in the planning process and improve long-term coordination between utilities, permit holders and developers. Planning for clean and renewable energy in developments leads to fewer emissions, more efficient buildings, healthier spaces for building occupants and annual cost-savings for building owners.  “We must act collectively and quickly to develop a sustainable city in order to support healthy and equitable communities, create jobs and produce opportunities for clean, renewable energy to help meet our climate action goals,” said Mayor William Peduto. “The City Energy Strategy allows us to work together to integrate climate efficiencies and build a city that is livable and sustainable for all.”  Among other things, the strategy recommends using climate mitigation incentives throughout the development process, such as expanding the Zoning Code’s performance points system citywide. This system is currently in place for the EcoInnovation District and riverfront development and allows developers to earn points and benefits by meeting specified goals such as energy efficiency, generating electricity with on-site renewable energies, connecting to district energy, stormwater management and/or transit-oriented development in their planning. This approach allows developers to define and work towards their own goals while also contributing to the City’s overall emissions reduction goals. Some of the other tools identified in the strategy include transparent utility consumption data, coordinated assets, and management structures such as a climate and energy committee. The City Energy Strategy focuses on increasing energy efficiency in the built environment, infrastructure, efficient city and governance. It fuses energy-related planning with city goals implemented in the realm of urban land use, planning and development. The final draft of the City Energy Strategy is available for review and public comment on the City Energy Strategy EngagePGH page through the end of this year.  This initiative, as well as others announced this week involving local progress on climate action goals such as the release of the City’s second voluntary local review of the UN Sustainable Development Goals, electric vehicle readiness plans and sustainable procurement laws that have been introduced to City Council, joins several initiatives of the Sustainability and Resilience Division and City of Pittsburgh to intentionally invest and institutionalize climate conscious practices to be a sustainable city for all. | 13/11/2021 15:16:43 |
| Beacon Procurement Platform Receives Upgrades to Enhance Vendor Experience | PITTSBURGH, PA (November 15, 2021) The City of Pittsburgh Office of Management and Budget’s Procurement team has partnered with OpenGov to announce the update of the City’s Beacon online procurement platform to provide a more user-friendly solicitation, contract management and vendor management tool.  As with the previous Beacon technology, vendors will be able to register to bid and receive notifications of future opportunities in the portal by subscribing to an account and subscribing. The upgrades will now allow vendors to also:   - Create a custom vendor profile and choose the categories for which they wish to receive notifications.  - Follow updates to existing solicitations by finding the solicitation and clicking the "Follow" button. This will allow all interested parties to receive amendments and addenda automatically.  - Submit questions and receive answers for open solicitations directly in the tool.  - Guide vendors through the process of responding electronically to RFPs, bids, etc. to ensure submissions have been accurately completed.  - View award results/postings electronically by signing up to create an account.  The upgrade will also improve internal management as city departments will be able to collaborate electronically on solicitations, document and rate vendor performance. The public procurement portal is available to view here.  All bid opportunities and solicitations will continue to be posted on Beacon at https://pittsburghpa.gov/beacon/index.html. | 15/11/2021 13:18:28 |
| Applications are Open for 2021-2022 Snow Angels Program | PITTSBURGH, PA (November 15, 2021) Applications for the 2021-2022 Snow Angels Program are open now. This program pairs older adult residents and residents with disabilities with nearby volunteer Snow Angels to help them shovel and salt their sidewalk and property throughout the winter.  Along with fostering stronger community relationships and relieving some of the stress that comes from snowfall or a freeze, Snow Angels make our sidewalks safer for those who are outside during the winter weather – like postal carriers, firefighters, police officers, and other neighbors. To request help from a Snow Angel, neighbors must: - Be at least 60 years old or have a physical disability - Live within City of Pittsburgh limits - Lack other resources (financial or family/friends nearby) to assist with snow removal Volunteers and neighbors in need can register for the program online at https://pittsburghpa.gov/snowangels/ or by calling the City’s 311 Response Center.The 2020-2021 program saw over 356 neighbors matched with volunteers to help them manage the hardships of winter. The Department of Public Works will offer incentives throughout the winter season for individuals to volunteer on the City of Pittsburgh’s Facebook page, Twitter and NextDoor. Community organizations, companies and/or employers are encouraged to assist with volunteer recruitment in their communities by having volunteers mention the organization’s name when they register. The organization that recruits the most volunteers will win the 2021-2022 Golden Shovel award and other rewards, including gift cards from local businesses, free passes to Schenley Park Ice Rink and more that will be announced later. For more information or to find out more about how to help with volunteer recruitment, visit pittsburghpa.gov/snowangels, contact the Snow Angels Program at snowangels@pittsburghpa.gov or call 412-255-0846.  | 15/11/2021 11:56:39 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Monday, November 15, 2021 | No public events scheduled. | 15/11/2021 09:44:02 |
| Parking Authority to Offer Free Parking in Metered Lots and On-Street Metered Spaces for Small Business Saturday | PITTSBURGH, PA (November 16) The Office of Mayor William Peduto and the Pittsburgh Parking Authority (PPA) are offering free parking in all parking authority-owned metered parking lots and on-street metered parking areas citywide this Small Business Saturday on November 27, 2021.  The City and PPA are pleased to work with the Pittsburgh Downtown Partnership and other community development groups around the city to encourage people to shop, dine and support Pittsburgh businesses. Offering free parking supports small businesses by helping to attract shoppers and visitors to retail and entertainment districts. “We are grateful to work with the PPA and our partners to provide free parking on Small Business Saturday again this year to bring people back Downtown and back to neighborhood business districts to support our dynamic business community,” said Mayor Peduto. | 16/11/2021 11:18:40 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Tuesday, November 16, 2021 | Panelist for PennFuture's Pennsylvania Leaders and Glasgow: Reflections on COP26Time: 12:00 p.m.Location: Virtual | 16/11/2021 09:32:27 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Wednesday, November 17, 2021 | Groundbreaking for Highland Park Super PlaygroundTime: 11:00 a.m.Location: Highland Park Super Playground | 17/11/2021 09:24:47 |
| City Offices to Close Thanksgiving Day, Refuse Collection Pushed Back One Day | PITTSBURGH, PA (November 18, 2021) City of Pittsburgh offices and facilities will be closed on Thanksgiving Day as well as Friday, November 26.  On Thursday, November 25, 2021 there will not be refuse, bulk waste and recycling collection (if this is your scheduled recycling week). Collection will resume on Friday, November 26. The schedule shall proceed as follows: - If your scheduled day of collection is Thursday November 25, 2021, you will be serviced Friday, November 26, 2021. - If your scheduled day of collection is Friday, November 26, 2021, you will be serviced Saturday November 27, 2021. In addition to City of Pittsburgh offices, the following Citiparks facilities will also have closures: HEALTHY ACTIVE LIVING CENTERS (Senior Centers)CLOSED—Thursday, November 25, 2021 CLOSED—Friday, November 26, 2021 The senior Grab ‘n Go meal distribution schedule is as follows for the Thanksgiving Holiday:  Monday, November 22 - 11 a.m. to 1 p.m.  Wednesday, November 24 - 11 a.m. to 1 p.m. 3 meals will be given to Seniors on Wednesday, November 24 covering them through the holiday weekend. Regular Grab ‘n Go schedule resumes on Monday November 29. RECREATION CENTERSCLOSED—Thursday, November 25CLOSED—Friday, November 26Normal Center Hours resume Monday, November 29MELLON TENNIS BUBBLECLOSED—Thursday, November 25 | 18/11/2021 14:25:28 |
| Media Advisory: Mayor Peduto Joins UnitedOnGuns and Everytown for Gun Safety Mayors Against Illegal Guns to Launch Mass Shooting Protocol and Playbook | PITTSBURGH, PA (November 18, 2021) Mayor William Peduto will be speaking at the Everytown for Gun Safety Mayors Against Illegal Guns University (MAIGU) today for the launch of the Mass Shooting Protocol and Playbook. A year after the mass shooting at the Tree of Life Synagogue in Squirrel Hill, Mayor Peduto was a leader in proposing the need for mayors and city managers to have a resource, protocol, checklist and playbook to respond to mass shootings.  The City of Pittsburgh worked with UnitedOnGuns, an initiative of the Public Health Advocacy Institute at Northeastern University School of Law, and mayors and first responders from cities that have shared the trauma of mass shoots, including Dayton, Ohio, El Paso, TX, Orlando, FL, Parkland, FL and San Bernadino, CA.  Through partnership and collaboration with these cities, two protocol documents have been produced to assist local leaders in responding to mass shootings. The first is the First 24 Hours Mass Shooting Protocol, which guides mayors through rapid response and provides a checklist for immediate actions. The Mass Shooting Protocol is available here.  The second document produced is the Mass Shooting Playbook, which provides over 200 pages of guidance that mayors can use to prepare for, respond to and help survivors, families and communities recover from a mass shooting. A copy of the Mass Shooting Playbook is available here.  Today, Mayor Peduto will join Orlando Chief of Staff Heather Fagan, Director of the Office of the Dayton City Commission Torey Hollingsworth, ICPTTA Project Director Tara Hughes, and Protocol co-author Sarah C. Peck for a MAIG University on November 18 at 2pm to 3:30pm EDT. The expert panel will discuss the role of a mayor’s office following a mass shooting, best practices based on their experience, and the importance of scheduling a tabletop exercise.  Registration for the event can be found here.  Everytown for Gun Safety requests that any media submit any direct quotes of speakers to them before publication.  Everytown for Gun Safety Media Contact:  Adam Sege ASege@everytown.org | 18/11/2021 09:53:48 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Thursday, November 18, 2021 | Groundbreaking for Robert E. Williams Park ShelterTime: 10:00 a.m.Location: Robert E. Williams ParkFeatured Speaker for Everytown for Gun Safety Mayor's Against Illegal Guns University: "Mass Shooting Protocol &amp; Playbook: A Resource for U.S. Mayors and City Managers"Time: 2:00 p.m.Location: VirtualSigning Ceremony to Launch Fast-Track Cities Pittsburgh to Work Towards AIDS/HIV-Related Goals of Paris Declaration and U.N. SDGsTime: 4:00 p.m.Location: City Council Chamber | 18/11/2021 09:23:19 |
| City of Pittsburgh Receives Highest Score Ever on Human Rights Campaign Equality Index | PITTSBURGH, PA (November 18, 2021) The Office of Mayor William Peduto has proudly announced today that for the fifth year in a row, the City of Pittsburgh has scored 100/100 on the Human Rights Campaign’s Municipal Equality Index Scorecard (MEI), earning an additional 15 flex points, the City’s highest to date.  The 2020 MEI scored 506 U.S cities of varying sizes on criteria that examine how inclusive municipal laws, policies and services are for LGBTQ+ people who live and work there. Cities are rated based on non-discrimination laws, the municipality as an employer, municipal services, law enforcement and the city leadership’s public and policy positions on equality.  A few examples of areas MEI scored cities on include the offering of transgender-inclusive healthcare benefits, non-discrimination laws in employment, housing and public accommodations, an LGBTQ+ police liaison, an LGBTQ+ liaison in the Mayor’s Office and non-discrimination for City employment and contractors. While the final score cannot exceed 100, the City of Pittsburgh received 15 additional flex bonus points for additional equality measures such as: - Laws protecting youth from conversion therapy - City employee domestic partner benefits - Youth bullying prevention policy for city services  - City services for LGBTQ+ youth - City services for LGBTQ+ older adults - City services provided to people living with HIV or AIDS - City services for the transgender community - Openly LGBTQ+ city elected or appointed leaders “We are proud to receive the maximum 100 points for the fifth year in a row from the Human Rights Campaign,” said Mayor Peduto. “We have received a record number of flex points for Pittsburgh thanks to the hard work of our Office of Equity, elected officials and departments in working towards a welcoming, more inclusive city for all.”  The City of Pittsburgh’s full 2021 MEI scorecard can be found here. | 18/11/2021 14:56:50 |
| City Seeking Company to Manage Electronic and Household Hazardous Waste Recycling Program | PITTSBURGH, PA (November 19, 2021) The City of Pittsburgh Department of Public Works Environmental Services have released a request for proposals (RFP) to find a company to continue a program for residents to recycle and properly dispose of electronic waste and household hazardous waste, including televisions, computers, batteries and pesticides.  For the program, the City will provide the facility and utilities at 3001 Railroad Street in the Strip District and will require e-waste and household hazardous waste to be recycled in full compliance with state and federal laws, an e-steward or R2 certification. The City is committed to providing accessible options for Pittsburgh residents to safely and responsibly dispose of electronic and household hazardous waste to prevent fires and the pollution of our rivers, vacant lots, alleys and hillsides with lead, mercury, and other poisons. Since summer 2019, 386 tons have been properly disposed and recycled through this program, including 270 tons of electronic waste and 116 tons of household hazardous waste and universal wastes.The full list of items the City is asking quotes for as well as the full RFP is available here on the City’s web-based procurement site Beacon. Although subsidized, fees will apply for most items. Earlier this month, the City temporarily suspended the drop-off site and cancelled two neighborhood collection events due to unforeseen issues with the previous vendor.  More Information on Environmental Services’ Recycling Goals - City’s Goals on Litter &amp; Illegal Dumping (GOLD) plan is available here- Pennsylvania Resources Council hosts e-waste and household hazardous collection events- Pennsylvania's Covered Device Recycling Act (CDRA) of 2010 prohibiting TV’s and computers from landfills is available here | 19/11/2021 14:58:22 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Friday, November 19, 2021 | Press Conference to Welcome Dr. Barry Kerzin's Altruism in Medicine Institute to PittsburghTime: 12 noonLocation: Mayor's Conference RoomSpeaking at ICLEI panel on COP26Time: 2:00 p.m.Location: Virtual | 19/11/2021 09:35:12 |
| Finance Director to Leave Role with City Government | PITTSBURGH, PA (November 19, 2021) The Office of Mayor William Peduto has announced that Department of Finance Director and City Treasurer Douglas Anderson is leaving his role with the City. Anderson started working for the City in January 2008, as the Deputy Controller and Chief of Staff to City Controller Michael Lamb. Mayor Peduto appointed him Director of Finance and City Treasurer in September 2020. Under Anderson’s leadership, the City’s Department of Finance navigated new financial challenges associated with the COVID-19 pandemic while also undertaking modernization improvements to update outdated systems and processes in the department to benefit its hardworking employees and the public. Among his many accomplishments throughout his career with the City, Anderson led efforts to: - Streamline and improve the process for the purchase of City property to reduce the amount of time it takes to finalize purchases - Create a framework to improve land care and maintenance of City-owned properties to invest in local land care businesses and remediate blighted properties more efficiently - Transition seven disparate tax collection systems into one online system to improve efficiency of tax collection for employees as well as provide a user-friendly portal for taxpayers that includes online check payments “Doug took on the role of Finance Director in one of the most uncertain times in recent financial memory and brought a sense of modern leadership to the department,” said Mayor William Peduto. “I thank him for responding to the needs of the community and the needs of his staff by recognizing that we don't have to continue to do things the way they’ve always been done but can create new opportunities for efficiency and transparency.” During his time in the City Controller’s office, Anderson oversaw the implementation of several government transparency initiatives, including the creation of Open Book Pittsburgh, a website and searchable database of City of Pittsburgh contracts, campaign finance contributions to candidates running for office in the City of Pittsburgh and lobbyists that do business with the City. He also oversaw the annual preparation of the Popular Annual Financial Report and managed many other roles, including assigning audit work to performance and fiscal audit staff and approving all Controller’s office expenditures. Anderson’s last day with the City of Pittsburgh is today. He will be joining PNC Bank as Relationship Manager and Vice President. | 19/11/2021 11:31:13 |
| Mayor Peduto Welcomes Altruism in Medicine Institute's World Headquarters in Pittsburgh | PITTSBURGH, PA (November 19, 2021) Today, Mayor William Peduto was joined by Dr. Barry Kerzin to announce the opening of the Altruism in Medicine Institute (AIMI) in Pittsburgh. The Northside-based institute works with local communities and institutions to teach applying Eastern philosophy to Western medical practices to create basic human-based compassionate care that benefits both the patients and medical practitioners.  The AIMI was founded by Dr. Kerzin, who is a California-born family physician who moved to India in 1988 to provide free medical care to local communities. There, he began studying Buddhism and meditation and was ordained a Bikkshu (Buddhist monk) by the Dalai Lama in February of 2003. He has since served as the Dali Lama’s personal physician as well as lecturer and teacher worldwide.  Dr. Kerzin started AIMI to teach medical principles that revive basic human caring in medical practice. It is common for medical professionals to feel burnout, depression, anger and frustration, which has been exacerbated by the high physical and emotional demands of the COVID-19 pandemic. The AIMI works with medical professionals to teach that empathy can lead to burnout, but self-compassion, compassion for others and mindfulness will result in resilience that improves outcomes for nurses, physicians, physicians assistants and other health care professionals as well as for patients.  While the AIMI has worked with health care professionals around the world, they intend to continue working with Pittsburgh’s large medical community, many of whom can take the teachings to other parts of the world. To date, they have worked with over 4,000 nurses and physicians at one Pittsburgh health care organization, medical students and are engaged with other medical and education institutions.  In partnership with the City of Pittsburgh, AIMI has expanded their teachings to include additional professions that regularly engage and provide service to people, particularly vulnerable people in need. Recognizing the need to avoid burnout, AIMI has worked with first responders, Citiparks staff and the Office of Community Health and Safety team to provide trainings in altruism, meditation and compassion to take care of themselves and, in turn, continue to provide high quality service to the people of Pittsburgh.  “I’d like to thank Dr. Barry Kerzin for choosing Pittsburgh to set up the AIMI which will teach our local communities and communities all around the world compassion to avoid burnout in demanding, public-facing fields where self-care and altruism are critical for staff and the people they serve. We have started an important partnership to provide this for our own staff and we thank AIMI for working with us to work towards creating a Pittsburgh that is compassionate and altruistic for all.” | 19/11/2021 13:33:00 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Monday, November 22, 2021 | Ribbon Cutting for Frankie Pace Park CAP ProjectTime: 2:30 p.m.Hunt Armory Ribbon CuttingTime: 4:00 p.m. | 22/11/2021 08:56:01 |
| Pittsburgh EMS Becomes Third in the Country to Provide Lifesaving Prehospital Buprenorphine for Opioid Overdoses | PITTSBURGH, PA (November 22, 2021) The Office of Community Health and Safety has announced that a pilot group of Pittsburgh Emergency Medical Services (EMS) paramedics have completed training to administer prehospital buprenorphine and began implementing the practice over the weekend. In September, the Pennsylvania Department of Health Bureau of EMS approved the City of Pittsburgh EMS’ Prehospital Buprenorphine Pilot Program, making Pittsburgh the third city in the country to implement this lifesaving intervention.  While all City of Pittsburgh Public Safety Bureau personnel are trained to administer naloxone (Narcan) in order to effectively provide life-saving rescue therapy to individuals experiencing overdoses, buprenorphine is regularly used by hospitals and physicians to treat opioid use disorder and opioid withdrawal, which is often experienced after naloxone is administered.As part of the pilot, Advanced Life Support EMS units will be able to administer buprenorphine to patients experiencing opioid withdrawal regardless if that patient decides to go to the hospital. Patients will then be able to schedule a virtual follow up with the UPMC Medical Toxicology Bridge Clinic to have a consultation with a doctor within 24 hours to get a buprenorphine prescription and be connected to other critical harm reduction resources.“The opioid epidemic has deeply affected so many cities and communities. If tools like buprenorphine exist, we need to have them in our communities and with our emergency medical personnel,” said Mayor William Peduto. “I’d like to thank the Department of Public Safety, Pittsburgh EMS and the Office of Community Health and Safety for their continued leadership here in our communities and nationally to provide real solutions to those with sustance use disorder.”“Pittsburgh EMS has continually led the way, operating on the cutting edge of prehospital medical advancements,” said Public Safety Director Wendell Hissrich.  “We want to continue to support our community members through field-based implementation of medical practices to save lives.” The pilot program was designed by the Bureau of EMS in partnership with the Office of Community Health and Safety and will run for one year.  As part of the expansion of public health-informed overdose prevention initiatives, the City of Pittsburgh will also begin distribution of fentanyl test strips, following Mayor Peduto's executive order in August allowing for the possession and use of these prevention tools. This has been made possible by funding from the Staunton Farm Foundation and their public health leadership. | 22/11/2021 11:45:24 |
| Partial Closure of Fifth and Forbes Avenues | PITTSBURGH, PA (November 23, 2021) The City of Pittsburgh’s Department of Mobility and Infrastructure (DOMI) is announcing the temporary paving of Fifth Avenue and Forbes Avenue in the Uptown neighborhood.Milling and repaving of Fifth Avenue and Forbes Avenue between Sixth Street and Moultrie Street will start on Tuesday, November 30, 2021 for approximately one week and construction will take place between 5:00 a.m. and 4:00 p.m. During this time, traffic may be reduced to a single lane. Performing this work is contractor A. Folino Construction, Inc.Currently, several utility company construction projects have been actively replacing underground utilities beneath Fifth Avenue and Forbes Avenue. The temporary paving is to stabilize the road surface for travel during the winter months before utility work begins again in the spring of 2022.Thank you for your cooperation during this time. We hope there will be only minor inconveniences. If you have any questions or require further information regarding this project, you may contact the City’s Response Center by calling 311 or 412-255-2621. You can learn more about DOMI’s other projects at www.pittsburghpa.gov/domi.This press release has been changed to reflect the updated start date of the project and the hours of operations. 11/24/2021 9:48 a.m. | 23/11/2021 15:22:48 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Tuesday, November 23, 2021 | Ribbon Cutting at AHN Community Outreach HubTime: 2:00 p.m.Location: 538 Smithfield Street | 23/11/2021 09:16:42 |
| City Receives $963,000 Grant for South 21st Street Complete Green Street Project | PITTSBURGH, PA (November 23, 2021) The City of Pittsburgh has been awarded a $963,578 grant from the state’s Commonwealth Financing Authority’s Multimodal Transportation Fund for the South 21st Street Complete Green Street Project in the South Side. The community-driven project would transform South 21st Street into a green boulevard and gateway from the East Carson business district corridor to South Side Park to divert stormwater and improve pedestrian safety.  The proposed South 21st Street Complete Green Street Project will incorporate a complete streets approach, a policy introduced by Mayor William Peduto in a 2015 executive order requiring that all new city street design projects make it safer for all users to travel like pedestrians, bicyclists, public transit vehicles, private vehicles and more. The proposal also includes natural and green infrastructure features to address stormwater runoff, erosion and issues of combined sewers.  The design would allow for traffic calming, pedestrian safety and green infrastructure by installing pervious pavers and pervious parking that will absorb stormwater rather than allowing it to sit atop of pavement to flood. It also includes bioswale islands in the middle of the street, as well as natural trees and grasses throughout, to capture stormwater. The larger project also calls for stormwater storage within South Side Park to reduce strain on the combined sewer system.  The project has been developed in partnership with the South Side community, City of Pittsburgh, ALCOSAN, Pittsburgh Water and Sewer Authority and Western Pennsylvania Conservancy | 23/11/2021 12:22:32 |
| Mayor Peduto Commends PWSA and PUC for Reaching Rate Settlement to Create Stormwater Management Fee and Eliminate Tap-In Feeds to Help Small Businesses and Affordable Housing Development | PITTSBURGH, PA (November 24, 2021) Following an announcement last week from the Pittsburgh Water and Sewer Authority (PWSA), Mayor William Peduto is commending the PWSA and Pennsylvania Public Utility Commission (PUC) for the approval of a rate settlement to create additional funding to serve City residents with safe and reliable water, sewer and stormwater services.  The new rate plan includes funding for critical community investments, enhancing the customer assistance programs, adjusted development fees and a financial incentive for consumers to enroll in auto-pay.  Part of the rate settlement includes eliminating tap-in fees, which are fees for residential homes and new developments to connect to water and sewer services. In a letter advocating for the removal of these fees in order to remove barriers to opening a business or developing affordable housing, Mayor Peduto wrote to PUC Secretary Rosemary Chiavetta: “These expensive fees disproportionately hurt small and independent businesses and inhibit our ability to develop much-needed affordable housing units, especially as we work to restore our economy from the impact of the global COVID-19 pandemic. Eliminating tap-in fees would go a long way toward rebuilding our neighborhoods, recovering from the devastating impact of the pandemic, and making it easier for our residents to open a business.... The pandemic has further magnified the inequity in our society, and it is more imperative than ever that we simplify the process to develop affordable housing units. These tap-in fees add to the already growing cost of developing housing that is accessible and affordable for the residents of our communities. Abolishing this fee would enable the City of Pittsburgh to advance our goal of ensuring that all of Pittsburgh’s residents can remain in their neighborhoods and improving quality of life for all.” A portion of the rate settlement addresses development fees for water and sewer connections to public infrastructure. A PWSA fee study completed this year recommended new permit and operations fees based on hours worked and equipment needed to provide connection services. Many costs will be reduced. The new fees will go into effect at the same time as the new monthly rates on January 12, 2022.  Mayor Peduto also supports the critical stormwater fee outlined in the settlement that will fund investment in sustainable solutions for stormwater management in response to the impacts of climate change the city has so clearly been experiencing. Increasingly frequent and intense rains cause combined sewer system to overflow into rivers and streams, flood streets and cause property damage and health concerns when basements back up. All properties across the board will be assessed so that all residents and businesses are supporting these important investments, not just PWSA water customers.  PWSA and the City are working with the Water Center at Penn and PennPraxis to create a new comprehensive stormwater management strategy that addresses the current circumstances to meet the needs of residents, PWSA and the City. Improved stormwater management will enhance water quality, alleviate flooding, reduce basement back ups, create jobs and beautify neighborhoods for safer and more resilient communities.Additional details about PWSA’s rate settlement with PUC can be found here. | 24/11/2021 11:04:07 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Wednesday, November 24, 2021 | Attending Tree Planting DedicationTime: 12 noonLocation: Mellon Park | 24/11/2021 10:13:40 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Monday, November 29, 2021 | Bureau of Emergency Medical Services Promotion CeremonyTime: 12:00 PMLocation: Mayor's Conference Room, City-County BuildingPittsburgh's Official Menorah Lighting Ceremony With Chabad Of Squirrel HillTime: 5:00 PMLocation: City-County Building Portico | 28/11/2021 19:38:47 |
| Communications Director to Leave Role with City | PITTSBURGH, PA (November 30, 2021) Mayor William Peduto announced today that Communications Director Molly Onufer will be leaving her role with the City.  Onufer started working for the City in December of 2016 in the Office of Community Affairs, where she served as manager from 2017-2019. Mayor Peduto appointed her Assistant Communications Director in January 2020 and then Communications Director in July 2021.  In her role with Community Affairs, Onufer worked directly with neighborhood organizations and community groups to listen to their needs, assist them with city services and resolve neighborhood concerns. During her time in the communications office, Onufer served as the press secretary (first as deputy) and she also: - Created centralized support for city departments’ social media managers through hosting monthly meetings and introduced analytics tracking - Developed rapid communications plans related to the COVID-19 pandemic, including moving press conferences and city events online, organizing a database for city staff to reference when residents called for help or information and managing the City’s COVID-19 website - Introduced new ideas for communicating important city services and programs for residents such as through bus shelter ads, mobility hub ads and the Monday Morning Post, the City's weekly online news roundup "Molly has been a longtime friend and trusted advisor," said Mayor Peduto. "In her time with the City, Molly has worked to find new, effective means for communicating with the public. I’d like to thank her for telling the City’s story – first in person to city residents at community meetings and then as a spokesperson for the City.”Onufer’s last day with the City will be Friday, December 3 before she joins Millcraft Investments as the Director of Marketing and Public Relations.  Chief of Staff Dan Gilman will be the main point of contact for media inquiries. | 30/11/2021 09:35:51 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Tuesday, November 30, 2021 | Bureau of Fire Promotions CeremonyTime: 10:30 a.m.Location: Mayor's Conference RoomGroundbreaking for Big Tom's Barbershop and Affordable Housing RedevelopmentTime: 12:00 p.m.Location: 2178 Centre Avenue | 30/11/2021 09:30:35 |
| City Joins Big Tom's Groundbreaking, Bringing $1.94 Million of Investments for Barbershop, Affordable Housing and Community Revitalization Project on Hill District's Centre Avenue Business Corridor | PITTSBURGH, PA (November 30, 2021) Mayor William Peduto joined Thomas Boyd, Sr. of TomTom24 Development, LLC as well as the Urban Redevelopment Authority of Pittsburgh (URA), Neighborhood Allies and other elected official, stakeholder and community partners to break ground on a revitalization project at 2178 Centre Avenue in the Hill District. The project will transform the former historic Hamm’s Barber Shop into the new home of Mr. Boyd’s Big Tom’s Barbershop while also creating affordable housing units and community space along the Hill District’s Centre Avenue business district.  Mr. Boyd will relocate his business to the first floor of the rehabilitated structure. The second and third floors will be rehabbed into four one-bedroom apartments affordable to households at or below 80% Area Median Income (AMI). The adjacent lots will be beautified and used as open space for the community and for pop-up sales and product demonstrations from local home-based businesses.  "Today is truly a celebration as we recognize the work of my friend and community champion Thomas Boyd. Big Tom’s is a staple in the Hill District community and it’s momentous that he will be redeveloping the historic Hamm’s to be the new home of his barbershop and using the opportunity to meet the community’s need for housing and shared space for community entrepreneurs,” said Mayor Peduto. “I’d like to thank him, as well as the funding partners who have joined us in supporting this redevelopment. This significant investment in the historic Hill District business district will be one of many we will see as part of the Hill community plans and the Avenues of Hope initiative.” The new Big Tom’s Barbershop project arose from a Request for Qualifications (RFQ) the URA released in July 2019 seeking multiple developers to purchase and redevelop any portion of 170 publicly-owned parcels along the Centre Avenue corridor in the Middle Hill neighborhood. The goal of the RFQ was to select developers to bring uses and concepts identified as priorities by the community in the 2015 Centre Avenue Corridor Redevelopment and Design Plan and the 2011 Greater Hill District Master Plan.    Mr. Boyd presented his proposal at a community meeting hosted by City Councilman R. Daniel Lavelle in September 2020 and received a community approval score of 100%.  “We couldn’t be more excited for Big Tom and this project which will break new ground in the Hill District,” said URA Deputy Executive Director Dr. Diamonte Walker. “The success of this project will not only signal catalytic change along the Centre Avenue corridor, but also paves the way for future commercial revitalization projects which simultaneously creates opportunities for community-centered ownership while closing the City of Pittsburgh's affordable housing gap.”   “We are honored to be an ally and partner on this journey with Big Tom and to support him in accessing the tools and resources needed to create transformative community change in the Hill District,” said Neighborhood Allies President, Presley Gillespie. "This project is the true epitome of equitable community development-encompassing the redevelopment of a physical place and creating opportunity for the people who call that place home. We're incredibly proud to that Mr. Boyd is not only poised to own a key corner parcel in his neighborhood, but also grow his community serving business over the coming years." To date the project has received over $1.94 million in funding from First National Bank (the largest subsidiary of F.N.B. Corporation), Lower Hill Group, Neighborhood Allies, Pennsylvania Department of Community and Economic Development, Pennsylvania Housing Finance Agency and URA. The project has also received over 450 of intensive technical assistance from Neighborhood Allies through their Centralized Real Estate Accelerator. "Thanks to all the people who have been working hard - all the community groups, all the funders, Neighborhood Allies, URA and all the people who have been helping me through this process," said Mr. Boyd. "I just feel blessed and we're going to continue giving back to the neighborhood." | 30/11/2021 13:42:08 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Wednesday, December 1, 2021 | No public events schedule. | 1/12/2021 10:04:56 |
| A Statement From Mayor William Peduto On Departure Of Grant Oliphant From Heinz Endowments | PITTSBURGH, PA (December 1, 2021) Mayor William Peduto today released the following on Mr. Grant Oliphant's announcement that he is departing the Heinz Endowments for new opportunities:"Grant Oliphant has been a true leader of the rebirth of Pittsburgh. Over the past 30 years he has been an advocate of equity, sustainable development, and so much more. His work at the Heinz Endowments was not about allocating funds, but empowering the people and organizations of Western Pennsylvania to strengthen their own communities. A key partner of our Administration from the very start through Talent City, he has been critical in our efforts to create the modern and efficient City government that Pittsburghers deserve.Grant helped to create the needed cohesion between corporate, foundation, and institutions along with labor and public officials that has allowed us to create real change in Pittsburgh these past 10 years. I'm grateful for his leadership and friendship and wish him all the best as he pursues this new opportunity." | 1/12/2021 19:00:08 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Thursday, December 2, 2021 | No public events scheduled. | 2/12/2021 10:31:20 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Friday, December 3, 2021 | No public events scheduled. | 3/12/2021 09:19:49 |
| Pittsburgh to Enter into Data Sharing Agreement with University of Cincinnati to Enhance Police Crisis Training and Co-Response | PITTSBURGH, PA (December 6, 2021) - This week, Mayor William Peduto will submit to Council a resolution to authorize entry into a data use agreement with the University of Cincinnati’s (UC) Center for Police Research and Policy (CPRP). This agreement allows the CPRP to evaluate outcomes of training and technical assistance for the Pittsburgh Bureau of Police (PBP). This partnership is part of the "Academic Training to Inform Police Responses” grant awarded to the City by the Bureau of Justice Assistance (BJA) and the International Association of Chiefs of Police (IACP)  to inform a national model for crisis response intervention team-building and Public Safety training. The CPRP’s research and evaluation are led by Robin Engel, PhD, Director of the International Association of Chiefs of Police (IACP) and CPRP. Dr. Engel and the CPRP have a longstanding history of providing such assistance, including technical assistance work with the Philadelphia Police Department and the Pennsylvania State Police, contributing to response to people with mental health conditions and intellectual and development disabilities. Dr. Engel explained, “It is critical to establish partnerships with Public Safety providers to safely respond to persons in crisis and to provide responders with additional training to ensure that they engage co- and alternative response teams.”  "I want to commend Public Safety Director Hissrich, Chief of Police Schubert, and OCH&amp;S Manager Drogowski on this new effort. This is one critical piece of our new model of public health and safety," said Mayor William Peduto. Sheila Roth, PhD, LCSW, EMT, Continuum of Support Program Manager in the City’s Office of Community Health &amp; Safety (OCH&amp;S), emphasized how technical assistance is critical in preparing PBP officers, AHN Urban Health team members, and OCH&amp;S Community Social Workers for safe co-responses to crises, “This is about building a continuum of support to ensure that the right responder is dispatched to provide engagement at the point of crisis and to provide ongoing care for our community members. We know that first responders are called for myriad needs in our community. With this partnership, we will collaborate with University of Cincinnati and the International Association of Chiefs of Police to elevate community voice, provider experience, best practices, and data to create comprehensive, trauma-informed responses.”  “We are grateful for the opportunity to both build and iteratively evaluate our crisis response while working with the Center for Police Research and Policy to inform training for first responders across the nation,” said Wendell Hissrich, Director of Public Safety Director. Director Hissrich expressed confidence that this collaboration will result in safer, person-centered response to City’s residents, “through this collaboration, the evaluation will inform culture change and equip Public Safety personnel with training that enables improved care for individuals with unmet needs.” This partnership is part of the City’s technical assistance grant "Academic Training to Inform Police Responses” awarded by the BJA and the IACP to the City of Pittsburgh and the Pittsburgh Bureau of Police to inform a national model for crisis response intervention team-building and Public Safety training. This is a joint initiative between UC, Community Health &amp; Safety, Public Safety, and the Bureau of Police. | 6/12/2021 12:10:49 |
| City Solicitor Announces Departure from City Government | PITTSBURGH, PA (December 6, 2021) Mayor William Peduto has announced that City Solicitor and Chief Legal Officer Yvonne Hilton will be leaving her position with city government.  Solicitor Hilton started with the City of Pittsburgh in August of 1997. Throughout her 24 years of public service with the City, she has been an Assistant City Solicitor, Associate City Solicitor and Deputy City Solicitor before Mayor Peduto appointed her as City Solicitor in October of 2018.  Solicitor Hilton led the City of Pittsburgh's Department of Law with her wealth of expertise and firm foundation in municipal law. Under her leadership and example, the talented attorneys and staff upheld the long-standing tradition of the City’s Department of Law as the preeminent municipal in-house counsel.  Among her countless accomplishments during her distinguished service to the city, as City Solicitor and Chief Legal Officer, she:  - Successfully guided the Law Department through a number of significant federal and state court cases resulting in favorable decisions for the City of Pittsburgh.   - Provided meaningful counsel to the City of Pittsburgh for handling many challenges due to the COVID-19 pandemic as both a municipal government and an employer.   - Continued to work with City attorneys to strive for the legal protection of precious City assets, including parks.   “Yvonne has been an incredible asset and a dedicated public servant for the City of Pittsburgh. She is diligent, thorough, fair and equitable in counsel and enforcement of the law. My administration has been lucky to have had a Solicitor of her caliber and we are grateful for the example she has set for the City’s Law Department and municipal attorneys everywhere,” said Mayor Peduto.  Solicitor Hilton’s final day with the City will be December 10. She will be moving to her new role as Associate Counsel with the Port Authority of Allegheny County. | 6/12/2021 10:04:17 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Monday, December 6, 2021 | Presentation Of RACP To Tree Of Life With Governor Tom WolfTime: 1:30 PMLocation: Tree of Life, Squirrel Hill NorthLet's Go Fishing Community Gift Presentation To Mayor From Simon SpencerTime: 4:30 PMLocation: Eastminster Presbyterian Church, East Liberty | 6/12/2021 09:07:29 |
| Pittsburgh Mayor William Peduto Honored for Advocating for U.S. Global Leadership to Strengthen Local Communities | The below press release has been issued by the U.S. Global Leadership Coalition:WASHINGTON, D.C. The U.S. Global Leadership Coalition (USGLC) is honoring Pittsburgh Mayor William Peduto for his work to advocate for U.S. global leadership as an imperative and effective approach to strengthening our country’s local communities. USGLC will pay tribute to Mayors across America at its virtual 2021 Tribute Celebration on December 7 at 8 PM ET, an event free and open to the public via registration here: celebrate.usglc.org/2021.“USGLC is proud to honor Mayor Peduto because he has been an influential advocate for strengthening American global leadership to support our communities here at home," said Liz Schrayer, President and CEO of the U.S. Global Leadership Coalition. "Let’s face it, mayors across the country are on the frontlines every day, addressing global issues that are now kitchen table issues – from the pandemic to our economy – that matter to their constituents. They uniquely understand that America simply can’t ignore what happens outside our borders.""Mayors across America are stepping up, knowing that diplomacy and development are essential to the health, safety, and economic interests of every American family. It’s exciting to recognize them," added Schrayer.Former U.S. Senator Norm Coleman, USGLC Co-Chair, and Michael Bloomberg, former New York City Mayor and head of Bloomberg Philanthropies, will join USGLC’s Tribute to America’s Mayors, which will highlight Mayor Peduto among a bipartisan group of mayors across the nation being honored for their leadership.This American global leadership event includes a tribute to former Secretary of State and General Colin Powell by two other former Secretaries of State, Condoleezza Rice and Madeleine Albright. It will also include a recognition of U.S. Senators Jeanne Shaheen (D-NH) and Todd Young (R-IN) for their work in strengthening U.S. engagement around the world.The USGLC event is also honoring Secretary-General of the United Nations, His Excellency António Guterres. Throughout his 45-year long career in public service, Secretary-General Guterres has prioritized bringing together the global community to build a better, safer world for all. Ambassador Linda Thomas Greenfield, U.S. Ambassador to the United Nations, will offer a special tribute and Henrietta Fore, Executive Director of UNICEF, will interview the Secretary-General.The U.S. Global Leadership Coalition (www.usglc.org) is a broad-based influential network of 500 businesses and NGOs; national security and foreign policy experts; and business, faith-based, academic, military, and community leaders in all 50 states who support strategic investments to elevate development and diplomacy alongside defense in order to build a better, safer world.For media inquiries: Emily TavinoNortheast Outreach Director, (202)-730-4172U.S. Global Leadership Coalition | 7/12/2021 17:30:11 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Tuesday, December 7, 2021 | Carnegie Library Of Accessible Media For Pennsylvanians Grand ReopeningTime: 4:00 PMLocation: Carnegie Library of Pittsburgh - Library of Accessible Media for Pennsylvanians, 4724 Baum Boulevard, BloomfieldAllegheny County Council Presenting Proclamation To Mayor Peduto In Recognition Of His Three Decades Of ServiceTime: 5:00 PMLocation: Allegheny County Courthouse, Gold Room, Central Business DistrictReceiving United States Global Leadership Coalition Statesmen AwardTime: 8:00 PMLocation: Zoom | 7/12/2021 10:20:40 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Wednesday, December 8, 2021 | Interview With Reporter Zubair BabakarkTime: 10:00 AMLocation: Office of the Mayor, City-County BuildingPresenting Mayor Sophie Masloff Employee of the Month AwardTime: 11:00 AMLocation: Mayor's Conference Room, City-County BuildingInterview With Smart Growth AmericaTime: 1:30 PMLocation: Office of the Mayor, City-County Building | 8/12/2021 10:27:03 |
| City Launches Dashburgh To Increase Public Access To Data | PITTSBURGH, PA (December 9, 2021) Mayor William Peduto and the Department of Innovation &amp; Performance today introduced Dashburgh, a new online transparency tool that allows the public to see and explore data on City of Pittsburgh operations.  “We have worked hard over the past eight years to create a more modern, transparent government and this comprehensive new tool allows our residents to see our open data in an easy-to-understand dashboard,” said Mayor William Peduto.  Dashburgh draws on data from over 32 data sources across the City’s portfolio of activity. Today's launch includes data from: 311, Administration, Equity, Finance, Neighborhood Development, Operations, Public Safety, Sustainability and Resilience. Providing one place to monitor the City’s activities, Dashburgh gives a snapshot of how permitting activities are exceeding service targets, City financial health, progress against Climate goals, participation in programs that provide access to opportunities to succeed, and the project and maintenance activities throughout the City.  “We expect to add new measures over time and build on the foundations we have laid to be a data-driven City government,” said Innovation and Performance Acting Director Heidi Norman. “Dashburgh serves as a vehicle for City residents to view how we’re meeting our service goals, and how we carry out key activities to deliver critical City services.” | 9/12/2021 13:49:31 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Thursday, December 9, 2021 | Meeting With Chief Resilience Officer Grant ErvinTime: 11:30 AMLocation: Office of the Mayor, City-County BuildingDashburgh Press Conference With Department Of Innovation &amp; PerformanceTime: 1:00 PMLocation: Mayor's Conference Room, City-County Building | 9/12/2021 11:25:34 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Friday, December 10, 2021 | Friday, December 10, 2021No public events scheduled. | 10/12/2021 11:19:01 |
| Temporary Road Closures In Oakland &amp; Greenfield For Bridge Inspection Saturday | The City of Pittsburgh’s Department of Mobility &amp; Infrastructure (DOMI) is announcing the inspection of the Eliza Furnace Trail Bridges over Greenfield Avenue and over Bates Street, between Second Avenue and Interstate 376.Work is tentatively scheduled to begin at 9:00 AM on December 11, 2021 and end at 3:00 PM on December 12, 2021, weather permitting. On Saturday, December 11, 2021 a single lane closure northbound on Bates Street will be required from 9:00 AM to 10:30 AM. A single lane closure southbound on Bates Street will be required from 10:30 AM to 12:00 PM. On Sunday, December 12, 2021, a rolling closure of one lane at a time on Greenfield Avenue between 9:00 am and 2:00 pm will occur.You can learn more about this projects and others from DOMI here. | 10/12/2021 16:22:56 |
| Pittsburgh &amp; Healthy Ride To Launch Electrified Bikes &amp; Mobility Hubs | PITTSBURGH, PA (December 13, 2021) Mayor William Peduto, the Department of Mobility &amp; Infrastructure (DOMI), and Health Ride today announced the Pittsburgh Bike Share Electrification and Mobility Hubs Project. This project prioritizes the addition of new electrified bikes to the existing fleet of traditional Healthy Ride pedal bikes in Pittsburgh. It also includes racks fitted with docking hardware for scooters and other motorized mobility devices. Mobility hubs will be deployed throughout the city at current Healthy Ride bikeshare stations that will better connect Pittsburgh to electrified micromobility. The United States Department of Transportation's Congestion Mitigation and Air Quality Program (CMAQ) has awarded $900,000 for the project. The City will be supporting the grant with an additional $225,000."Creating greater access to equitable mobility options has been a cornerstone of my Administration," said Mayor William Peduto. "Ensuring our residents have access to quality transportation creates greater opportunity for all citywide. I want to thank the Department of Mobility &amp; Infrastructure and Health Ride for collaborating on this next great step." Healthy Ride will launch an entirely new bikeshare system in 2022 that features e-assist bicycles in addition to traditional pedal bikes. On-street charging stations create a network of infrastructure to support reliable, convenient e-assist bicycles throughout the Healthy Ride network. On December 15, Healthy Ride will begin uninstalling 50 Healthy Ride stations throughout the city in preparation for the electrification installation in 2022.  "In 2021, Healthy Ride began plans to rebuild the bikeshare system holding Equity as the core value,” said David White, Executive Director, Bike Share Pittsburgh. “We established a Community Coalition of partners, customers, and stakeholders to help guide the process of building a better bikeshare program for Pittsburgh. Electrification and e-assist bicycles are essential to this shift.” Electric assist bikes have proven to be wildly popular with new customers to bikeshare. Cities like Madison WI, Charlotte NC and Chicago IL, have seen electric assist bicycles meaningfully increase bikeshare usage by more diverse riders. For more information on Healthy Ride, visit the system’s website www.healthyridepgh.com.  About Pittsburgh Bike Share:The mission of Pittsburgh Bike Share is to provide Pittsburgh with a joyful, sustainable, and affordable mobility service for all residents and visitors.  Pittsburgh Bike Share is a charitable organization founded in December 2012 and incubated by Bike Pittsburgh. The organization was created due to mounting interest in implementing a municipal bike share system in Pittsburgh from a collection of local leaders: planners at the City of Pittsburgh, business leaders at Walnut Capital, and bicycle/pedestrian advocates at Bike Pittsburgh. Pittsburgh Bike Share owns and operates Pittsburgh’s public bike sharing system named Healthy Ride. Healthy Ride is designed to provide an active transportation option for residents, students and visitors of Pittsburgh. For media inquiries:City of PittsburghJames Hill james.hill@pittsburghpa.gov Healthy RideErin Potts erin@pghbikeshare.org | 13/12/2021 15:01:35 |
| Pittsburgh To Hold First Community Meeting For New Davis Avenue Bridge | PITTSBURGH, PA (December 13, 2021) Mayor William Peduto and the Department of Mobility &amp; Infrastructure today announced the first community meeting in preparation for the City of Pittsburgh’s construction of a new Davis Avenue pedestrian and bike bridge from Brighton Heights to historic Riverview Park.  Mayor Peduto allocated funds in 2019 to begin engineering studies for the project. Following the passage of the American Rescue Plan in 2021, the Mayor allocated additional funds totaling over $4 million dollars to complete this project. This new gap funding joined an additional $500,000 grant from the Commonwealth Financing Authority.  “The North Side has long called for their access to Riverview Park to be restored. A new Davis Avenue Bridge is not just a critical infrastructure project, it dramatically increases the quality of life for our Brighton Heights residents,” said Mayor William Peduto. “I was proud to allocate the funding, but projects like these are not done by the City alone. Without partnerships in Harrisburg and Washington DC, these projects do not happen.”  The original Davis Avenue Bridge was constructed in 1898 and rehabbed in 1986. The bridge was demolished in May of 2009 due to serious structural deterioration. Since that time, the residents of Brighton Heights and Marshall-Shadeland have had direct access to their regional CitiParks North Side park severely limited. Mayor Peduto, Senator Wayne Fontanta, Representative Emily Kinkead, and Councilman Bobby Wilson collectively worked to provide funding from all three levels of government to fully fund the project.  “I was proud to advocate for and help bring state funds to this worthwhile project that has been 20 years in the making,” said State Senator Wayne Fontana. “I’m pleased federal, state and city officials were once again able to work together to make this important project come to fruition. Restoring access from Brighton Heights to Riverview Park was a priority for many Brighton Heights residents and I’m excited for the neighborhood."“When I ran for this office, I made rebuilding the Davis Avenue Bridge, and reconnecting parts of my district that have been separated for more than a decade, a cornerstone of my commitment to advocating for my constituents,” said State Representative Emily Kinkead. “I am proud that my partnership with Councilman Bobby Wilson and Mayor Peduto has paid off for the residents of the Northside. I am ready to get shovels in the ground to reconnect our communities.”  The project will see the construction of a multi-use pedestrian bridge over Woods Run Avenue and valley. The bridge will seek to emulate its historic predecessor while embracing new technology to minimize construction costs and impacts on the adjacent neighborhoods. In accordance with stakeholder wishes, the bridge will not be vehicular.  "In August 2021, I was proud to announce that the City of Pittsburgh had committed to spending $2 million to reconstruct the Davis Avenue Bridge,” said Councilman Bobby Wilson. “This bridge will reconnect Brighton Heights, the largest neighborhood on the Northside, to Riverview Park, the largest and only regional park on the Northside. Now, I am looking forward to the first public meeting to learn about the plans and construction timeline of this vital bike and pedestrian bridge in District One."  The first public community meeting regarding the project is being held by the Department of Mobility &amp; Infrastructure tonight at 6:30 PM on Zoom.  Zoom Meeting DetailsDate: December 13, 2021, 6:30PM Location: Zoom Join Zoom Meeting:https://us06web.zoom.us/j/87537256614?pwd=UUlTMnU4ak9yVDBqZmNWNWF6MDBUdz09 Meeting ID: 875 3725 6614 Passcode: 636138 | 13/12/2021 10:19:56 |
| URA Board To Vote On Two Items To Further The Success Of Avenues Of Hope Initiative | The Urban Redevelopment Authority of Pittsburgh (URA) Board of Directors will vote this week on two items that will further the success of the Avenues of Hope (AoH) initiative: 1) Approval of the program guidelines for the AoH Storefront Façade Grant Program; and 2) The sale of four URA-owned parcels located in the Middle Hill District neighborhood for the New Granada Square Commercial Office Development. "These are exactly the community centered investments we had in mind when creating Avenues of Hope," said Mayor William Peduto. "These actions will lead to once in a lifetime opportunities for local business owners and expand the historic New Granada block in the Hill District."The AoH Storefront Façade Grant Program is intended to improve the physical appearance of commercial storefronts in Pittsburgh’s seven AoH commercial corridors, improve the shopping experience for neighborhood residents and visitors, increase revenue for small businesses, and create local jobs.  The guidelines were previously presented to the URA Board at its meeting held on November 16, 2021. Details of the guidelines include:- Grants of up to $12,000 are available to businesses and/or property owners in the seven AoH corridors.- Applicant must show evidence of a 10% match ($1,200 if they get the whole grant amount).- Up to 25% of the funds can be used for interior renovations.- Up to 50% of the funds can be used for ADA improvements, such as ramps, railings, and bathroom upgrades.- The program will open in January.- Applications will be accepted on a quarterly basis.- The application deadlines for 2022 are February 28, April 30, July 31, and October 31.“We are excited to offer this new facade program, which will revitalize storefronts on our Avenues of Hope corridors and enhance main streets across the City," said URA Deputy Executive Director Dr. Diamonte Walker. “Prioritizing investment in these areas is more than just placemaking, it is placekeeping. These tangible investments are designed to bolster our business community, create high quality jobs and provide critical goods and services to the residents of the City of Pittsburgh.”  The Hill Community Development Corporation (Hill CDC) is planning a new construction office building to the west of the historic New Granada Theater on a site that includes four URA-owned parcels located at the intersection of Devilliers Street and Centre Avenue. The URA Board will vote on the sale of four parcels to New Granada Development, LLC, a venture created by the Hill CDC, for $195,000 plus costs.  This new construction office building will be connected by a pedestrian skybridge to the New Granada Theater. The building will contain a gross area of approximately 41,000 square feet, with 10,000 square feet occupied by the University of Pittsburgh Community Engagement Center; 8,400 square feet of flexible commercial office space; a 3,600 square foot café/restaurant; 3,400 square feet of rooftop reception/dining space; and 14 parking spaces below grade.  The URA parcels total 5,557 square feet and New Granada Development, LLC, owns the remaining 4,443 square feet, for a site total of 10,000 square feet. Total development costs are estimated at $22.4 million. This will be the final phase of development on the New Granada Block. New Granada Apartments, a Low-Income Housing Tax Credit (LIHTC) supported affordable housing development with street level commercial retail spaces, is currently under construction on the east end of the block. The historic New Granada Theater will be under construction soon and will include office space, theater space, and a food hall. The URA Board of Directors meets virtually on Thursday, December 16 at 2 PM. | 14/12/2021 13:00:07 |
| Pittsburgh To Hold Public Meeting For West End Trolley Trail | PITTSBURGH, PA (December 14, 2021) Mayor William Peduto, Council President Theresa Kail-Smith, and the Department of Mobility &amp; Infrastructure are announcing a community meeting for the long awaited West End Trolley Trail. The West End Trolley Trail is a proposed half-mile length pedestrian and bike trail that will connect from McCartney Street to the existing trail at Crafton Boulevard at Noblestown Road in the West End.“These sorts of projects make our streets safer for all,” said Mayor William Peduto. “Our neighborhoods must be connected for all modes of transportation. The Trolley Trail will create safe passage in our western neighborhoods for hundreds as we work to expand and implement our Bike+ Plan and Complete Streets model” The Trolley Trail follows a former public transit trolley line. The proposed route would include on-street shared lanes as well as a full pedestrian only off road path that would include benches and lighting. The project has been in the works for over 15 years and was led by Council President Theresa Kail-Smith as a then private citizen and community advocate. “I want to thank Mayor Peduto and the Department of Mobility &amp; Infrastructure for this investment,” said Council President Kail-Smith. “This project will bring a wonderful amenity to our western neighborhoods and keep people safe.” The meeting will take place on Wednesday, December 15th from 6 – 8 PM both in person and on Zoom. Department of Mobility &amp; Infrastructure staff and Consultants will present plans and hear from residents at Café 412 at 400 South Main Street in the West End.  Zoom Participation Information:Join Zoom Meeting https://us02web.zoom.us/j/84947093096Meeting ID: 849 4709 3096 Passcode: 166169 Call-in: 929-205-6099 | 14/12/2021 15:15:05 |
| Pittsburgh To Formally Designate Greenways As Six New City Parks | PITTSBURGH, PA (December 14, 2021) – This week, Mayor William Peduto and the Department of City Planning will submit legislation to City Council to designate and transfer certain properties across the city from the Greenways for Pittsburgh Program, and other adjacent vacant properties under City ownership, to be adopted as park space.The designated properties will create six new parks in the Department of Public Works and Department of Parks &amp; Recreation (CitiParks) system spanning over 300 acres across the City in many neighborhoods including:- Allentown- Beechview- Brookline- Glen Hazel- Greenfield- Hazelwood- Hill District- Mount Washington- Overbrook- Polish Hill- South Side Slopes“We are dedicated to building a system of parks and greenways that advance stewardship, equity, and our economy,” said Mayor William Peduto. “This legislation provides Pittsburghers with access to natural and historic assets, places to play and celebrate, and opportunities to be active and healthy.” These new parks align with the goals laid out in the OpenSpacePGH plan, the City’s open space parks and recreation plan, to capitalize on Pittsburgh’s diverse natural and cultural resources; respect and enhance the relationship between nature and the built environment, foster a city-wide sense of community; strengthen neighborhood identity; and more. Additionally, the parks will move the City closer to its 2030 goal, set in the OnePGH resilience strategy, of providing residents with affordable neighborhood access to environmental amenities and programming by increasing the number of City residents within a 10-minute, or half-mile, walk to a CitiPark.Review the legislation for each park: Bigelow, Fairhaven, Hazelwood, Knoxville Incline, Moore, and Seldom Seen. | 14/12/2021 11:07:04 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Tuesday, December 14, 2021 | Tuesday, December 14, 2021No public events scheduled. | 14/12/2021 10:12:38 |
| Merchant Street &amp; Ridge Avenue On Pittsburgh's North Side Reopen | Pittsburgh's Department of Mobility and Infrastructure (DOMI) is pleased to announce the reopening of Merchant Street between Ridge Avenue and Reedsdale Street and the reopening of Ridge Avenue between Brighton Road and West Ohio Street. The opening of these streets marks another milestone toward the completion of the West Ohio Street Bridge reconstruction project.Please be mindful of on-going construction in the area as the demolition of the Ridge Avenue Bridge will continue into the new year. Also, please note that Ridge Avenue remains closed at the intersection with West Commons for several more weeks to facilitate the Allegheny Circle improvement project.If you have any questions or require further information regarding this project, you may contact the City’s Response Center by calling 311 or 412-255-2621. You can learn more about DOMI’s other projects at www.pittsburghpa.gov/domi. | 15/12/2021 16:03:10 |
| Pittsburgh Announces Progress In Penn Circle Two-Way Conversion | PITTSBURGH, PA (December 15, 2021) Mayor William Peduto and the Urban Redevelopment Authority of Pittsburgh (URA) today announced progress is being made on the Penn Circle Two-Way Conversion Project.The project will convert Station and Euclid Streets in the East Liberty neighborhood from one-way traffic in to two-way, multi-modal neighborhood-scale streets. Improvements to the roadways include new signals, bike lanes, curb bump-outs and other traffic calming measures to increase pedestrian and bike safety.“Undoing the wrongs of urban renewal efforts of the 1950’s and 1960’s is an essential task,” said Mayor William Peduto. “The community deserves a connected street grid that is safe for all users. Restoring Penn Circle to a two-way neighborhood scale street and recent affordable housing investments in East Liberty helps to develop a city for all.” In November, the URA selected Michael Baker International for construction management and inspection services. Michael Baker recently completed a similar two-way conversion project in Allegheny Center in the Northside.“We can never fully repair the damage done and legacy created by Urban Renewal projects of the past, but we do have a responsibility to remediate where we can,” said URA Executive Director Greg Flisram. “The final phase of converting this ring road back to a traditional urban street grid will reconnect the neighborhood for the people who live there, not just those that traverse it.”The URA, in partnership with Mackin Engineering and Michael Baker, will be issuing the bid release for construction services in mid-January. Only PennDOT pre-qualified contractors will be eligible to bid on the project. Bids will remain open for 4-5 weeks. Once a construction firm has been selected, work is scheduled to begin in the spring of 2022. | 15/12/2021 10:36:34 |
| City &amp; URA Partner With Manchester Citizens Corporation &amp; Millcraft Investments To Advance Esplanade Development | PITTSBURGH, PA (December 15, 2021) The Urban Redevelopment Authority of Pittsburgh (URA) Board of Directors is set to vote tomorrow on the sale of URA-owned property to Esplanade Partners, LP, a wholly owned subsidiary of Millcraft Investments, Inc., for $1.5 million to advance Phase I of the Esplanade development. The approximately 5.59 acres owned by the URA are located along the Ohio River just north of the Rivers Casino and the West End Bridge in the Chateau neighborhood.“The construction of Route 65 separated a beautiful and historic neighborhood from its riverfront, and this project begins to bring them back together. The relationship forged between the Manchester community and Millcraft is the type of community driven development we need to truly create equity and opportunity in every neighborhood. I want to thank Lucas Piatt and LaShawn Burton-Faulk for their partnership, vision and commitment to invest in both the physical community and the people of Manchester and Chateau," said Mayor William Peduto.Esplanade will be a major redevelopment of the URA-owned brownfield parcels, along with four surrounding privately-owned, underutilized industrial parcels. The entire project will transform an approximately 15-acre site into a mixed-use development with a wide variety of uses centered around a pavilion conceived as an indoor extension of the riverfront open space. The pavilion will include a courtyard/winter garden that will be the hub for a restaurant, fresh food market, and other experiential programing. The exterior will feature areas for public seating and gathering, along with other amenities. It will be available to the public year-round and accessible from either the Esplanade streets or the riverfront.   Phase I of the project will utilize the URA parcels and include some improvements on the surrounding parcels. Included are the 45,000 square foot pavilion building; a 300-unit apartment building containing both affordable and market-rate housing and retail space; a 15,000 square foot space supporting a 53-meter Ferris wheel; a 550-space public parking garage; and a mixed-purpose marina including a public pier, public safety uses, houseboats, and seasonal and transient slips.    The plan also includes additional environmental and recreation improvements such as the relocating and enhancing the Three Rivers Heritage Trail, stabilizing and re-vegetating the river's edge, restoring native plants, cultivating green infrastructure, and maintaining active and passive open space. Plans for the open space include retail kiosks to be used as incubator or temporary operating spaces for local entrepreneurs; splash park and ice-skating amenities; a park-like amphitheater for small performances and local music; passive reflection and quiet zones; and historical/educational placards focused on local figures and events.   The budget for Phase I is approximately $236 million.   "We are excited to be moving to the next steps of the Esplanade project. We are especially thankful for our partnership with our neighbors in the Manchester, Chateau and North Side communities as we work together to reconnect the neighborhoods and transform old industrial land into an active riverfront destination for everyone to enjoy. We are grateful to the City and URA for their support," said Lucas Piatt, owner and CEO of Millcraft Investments.   "Over the last few months, a strong relationship has developed between Millcraft, Manchester Citizens and myself,” said Councilman R. Daniel Lavelle. “This is critical because it helps to ensure that Esplanade is not an isolated development, but rather a development that reconnects Chateau to the larger historic community. The relationship is also critical to ensure the development provides connectivity, wealth building opportunities, affordable housing, business development and sustainability for residents of Manchester, and the region."   The developer has committed to continuing good faith efforts to work with Manchester Citizens Corporation and community stakeholders to meet community objectives for connectivity, job creation and educational opportunity, sustainability, a community benefits agreement, financing, and affordable housing prior to closing.    “MCC its board of directors and myself are so grateful that Mayor William Peduto and his Administration made neighborhood comprehensive plans a priority,” said Manchester Citizens Corporation Executive Director LaShawn Burton-Faulk. “Manchester’s neighborhood plan has called out equity, connectivity and sustainability as drivers for transformative community development. The Esplanade, through hard work and partnership, will create a community benefits agreement, based on commitment that will allow Manchester Chateau to become a regional asset. We’d also like to thank Councilman Lavelle for his guidance and input on this project.”"From land reclamation to wealth building, job creation, increased housing opportunities, and encouraging sustainable development, there is a lot to like about Esplanade," said URA Executive Director Greg Flisram. "We are excited to see this mixed-use project, which includes affordable housing, advance forward with the Manchester community in a way that seeks to reconnect the neighborhood to a revitalized riverfront." | 15/12/2021 12:39:15 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Thursday, December 16, 2021 | Press Conference With Pittsburgh Water &amp; Sewer AuthorityTime: 1:30 PMLocation: Morrison Street at Sedgwick Street, California - Kirkbride | 16/12/2021 12:32:24 |
| Pittsburgh To Improve Irvine Street Sidewalks Between Hazelwood &amp; Greenfield | PITTSBURGH, PA (December 17, 2021) Mayor William Peduto and Pittsburgh's Department of Mobility &amp; Infrastructure (DOMI) are pleased to announce the improvement of the sidewalks along Irvine Street between Hazelwood Avenue and Greenfield Avenue. DOMI will be hosting a virtual Public Presentation and project display for the Critical Sidewalk Gaps - Irvine Street Project. This project involves the replacement of existing sidewalk, curbs, and curb ramps along Irvine Street within the City of Pittsburgh. Construction is planned to begin in the spring of 2022.An online presentation of the project outlining and explaining the proposed plans and construction schedule is available here on our EngagePGH platform. Public comment for this presentation will be accepted through January 7, 2022.You can learn more about other DOMI projects at here. | 17/12/2021 10:38:54 |
| Pittsburgh Receives $1.4M In Grant Funding For Pedestrian Wayfinding Project | PITTSBURGH, PA (December 13, 2021) This week, Mayor William Peduto will submit a resolution to City Council to accept $1.4 million in funding for the Pittsburgh Pedestrian Wayfinding Project. The resolution authorizes a reimbursement agreement with PennDOT District 11 for funding provided by the Southwestern Pennsylvania Commission’s Transportation Alternatives Set-Aside Program. The program will establish a world class pedestrian wayfinding system that highlights key landmarks, reinforces a sense of place, and makes it easier for residents and visitors to navigate four key business districts. The first phase includes Downtown, Oakland, the North Side, and the North Shore. The system may also be applied to other neighborhoods in future phases. “I am proud to advance this community driven project as a solution to help residents and visitors better navigate Pittsburgh’s unique topography, bridges, and rivers,” said Mayor William Peduto. “This pedestrian wayfinding system will help connect the city and celebrate what each neighborhood has to offer, with a uniquely Pittsburgh design.” The development of Pittsburgh’s new pedestrian wayfinding system was formulated through a collaboration between the City of Pittsburgh, the Pittsburgh Downtown Partnership, the Oakland Business Improvement District, the Oakland Transportation Management Association, Walk Ride Northside, Northside Cultural Collaborative, Southwestern Pennsylvania Commission, University of Pittsburgh, and UPMC. The project has engaged thousands of residents and stakeholders throughout the extensive development phases. Since its inception, the group has raised over $700,000 in private funds for design creation and community engagement. Collaborative stakeholder workshops, presentations, site visits, and art commission reviews have been held throughout the process, with visioning, analysis, strategy development, sign design, and programming stages building consensus among the various institutions, both citywide and from each of neighborhoods. The Pittsburgh Pedestrian Wayfinding Project has been fully designed and includes over 50 kiosks and 110 directional signs distributed throughout the four neighborhoods. The project is scheduled to be put out to bid in summer 2022 with installation expected to begin in fall 2022.  | 13/12/2021 12:04:02 |
| Pittsburgh Offices Closed Christmas Eve &amp; New Year's Eve | PITTSBURGH, PA(December 22, 2021) City of Pittsburgh offices and facilities will be closed on Christmas Eve and New Year’s Eve. As both holidays fall on a Saturday this year, there is no change in refuse collection from the Department of Public Works’ Bureau of Environmental Services. They will operate on their normal Monday through Friday schedule. However, all City of Pittsburgh offices will be closed on Christmas Eve, December 24, 2021 and New Year's Eve, December 31, 2021 to observe the holidays. Pittsburgh's Parks remain open 24/7. However, some CitiParks facilities will either be closed or operate with altered hours:   HEALTHY ACTIVE LIVING CENTERS (Senior Centers)- CLOSED - Friday, December 24, 2021- CLOSED - Friday, December 31, 2021- Grab &amp; Go Meals will be available on the Monday and Wednesday before Christmas and New Year’s Day from 11 AM to 1 PM. RECREATION CENTERS- CLOSED - Friday, December 24, 2021 - CLOSED - Friday, December 31, 2021- The week of December 27, all Recreation Centers will operate Monday - Thursday 10 AM to 6 PM SCHENLEY PARK SKATING RINK- Christmas Eve, Friday December 24 - One Session: 1:30 PM to 3 PM - CLOSED - Christmas Day, Saturday, December 25, 2021 - New Year’s Eve, Friday, December 31 - One Session: 1:30 PM to 3 PM - OPEN - New Year’s Day, Saturday, January 1, 2021 - Regular Schedule MELLON PARK TENNIS CENTER- Christmas Eve, Friday, December 24 - Closes at 4 PM - CLOSED - Christmas Day, Saturday, December 25, 2021 - New Year’s Eve, Friday, December 31 - Closes at 4 PM- CLOSED - New Year’s Day, Saturday, January 1, 2022 | 22/12/2021 14:03:00 |
| Pittsburgh Provides Update On COVID-19 Vaccination Mandate | In order to protect City of Pittsburgh employees as well as the public they serve, Mayor William Peduto issued an Executive Order on November 1, 2021, requiring COVID-19 vaccination for all City employees. As of December 22, 2021, City employees need to be fully vaccinated for COVID-19, except for circumstances where an employee has an approved or pending exception or extension.Since the Mayor announced the vaccination requirement, the City has achieved 85.85% compliance—meaning employees are fully vaccinated or have a pending or approved exception or extension.For those employees who are not yet in compliance, a total of 278, discipline in accordance with the City’s progressive discipline policy has begun. At any point, if an employee gets their first shot, the City will pause further disciplinary action to give the employee a reasonable amount of time to become fully vaccinated. This next stage of the process will not result in disruptions to City services and operations and will result in more employees becoming vaccinated. | 23/12/2021 16:12:47 |
| City of Pittsburgh PGH Lab Announces 7th Cohort | PITTSBURGH, PA (December 27, 2021) PGH Lab, created under the Administration of Mayor William Peduto, will be continuing its innovative work with local startup companies in 2022 with the announcement of its 7.0 Cohort. PGH Lab connects local startup companies with the City of Pittsburgh. Startups are encouraged to test, gain valuable market feedback, and iterate. In turn, the program gives local government the opportunity to explore new ways to use technology and services to make government more efficient, transparent, sustainable, and inclusive. The following seven companies have been chosen for the 2022 cohort:- Robot Armin, LLC- Doors Unhinged, LLC- Farm to Flame Energy- Komodo Analytics- Royally Fit, LLC- Kloopify- Street SenseFor more news and updates to come visit the PGH Lab website, follow PGH Lab on Twitter at @PghIP or follow the Innovation &amp; Performance Medium. | 27/12/2021 16:57:06 |
| City, URA, &amp; Housing Authority Advance Hilltop Urban Farm | PITTSBURGH, PA (December 13, 2021) Mayor William Peduto, the Urban Redevelopment Authority of Pittsburgh (URA), and the Housing Authority of the City of Pittsburgh (HACP) announced today plans to further advance the Hilltop Urban Farm. The URA and HACP have reached an agreement for the URA to purchase the urban farm site at fair market value dependent upon confirmation that the URA has secured full reimbursement for the cost of the acquisition. “I want to thank the leadership of the Hilltop Urban Farm, Hilltop Alliance, Allegheny Land Trust, URA, and Housing Authority for all working together to make this incredible vision come true. 23 acres of farming in our Hilltop will provide job opportunities, agricultural education, community strength and greater food security,” said Mayor William Peduto.  The URA will take board action in January and the HACP will immediately begin the disposition approval process with HUD. At the same time, the URA will be working with the Allegheny Land Trust who is raising funds to acquire the site to provide long term protection of the nation’s largest urban farm.  "What a great way to close out 2021," said Pastor Maurice Trent, Board President of the Hilltop Urban Farm. "We appreciate the dedication and persistence of Mayor Peduto and his team, the Housing Authority and the URA, who have all worked for years to make the farm a reality. We look forward to our continued partnership with Allegheny Land Trust to make the Hilltop Urban Farm an asset for the Hilltop-communities for decades to come." “Allegheny Land Trust looks forward to permanently conserving the nation’s largest urban farm in partnership with the local community, the Mayor’s office, the Urban Redevelopment Authority and the Hilltop Urban Farm,” says Chris Beichner, ALT’s President and CEO.  “Conserving and caring for close-to-home green space, gardens and farms is part of our vision of making green space easily accessible and available to everyone, and we are thrilled this important project is taking a significant step forward.  We will work with great urgency in the coming months to raise the funds necessary to complete the protection of the farm.” | 27/12/2021 14:54:08 |
| Mayor Peduto &amp; Veterans Place Partner To Expand Housing For Veterans | PITTSBURGH, PA (December 27, 2021) Mayor William Peduto today announced that the City of Pittsburgh has received a signed judge’s order providing a clear title for 5 parcels on Washington Boulevard that the City will be providing to Veterans Place. The land will now be transferred to the Urban Redevelopment Authority of Pittsburgh - an action already approved by the City Council – who will in turn sell the land to Veterans Place.  Veterans Place plans to construct a three story, multipurpose building, that will provide handicapped accessible housing for veterans. This project will provide additional housing for at-risk and homeless veterans in our region. Additionally, the building will provide supportive services to ensure that veterans have the necessary tools and resources for a sustainable future. “We are excited for this opportunity to convert these once blighted properties into veteran housing that will ensure veterans have a place to call home.  With this investment from the Mayor’s Office, and the City of Pittsburgh, we will continue to combat veteran homelessness in this region. Through this support, we will ensure that veteran homelessness is brief, rare and non re-occurring,” said Rob Hamilton, Executive Director and Army Veteran. “Support for our veterans is very personal to me,” said Mayor William Peduto. “Veterans Place has been a fantastic partner with my administration and I am thrilled we were able to get this across the finish line before I left office. This project will take blighted, abandoned homes in a community and turn it into a critically needed housing for those that served our country.” | 27/12/2021 10:46:25 |
| Mayor William Peduto Signs Budget &amp; Releases New Public Engagement Budget Tool | PITTSBURGH, PA (December 28, 2021) Mayor William Peduto and the Office of Management &amp; Budget (OMB) released a new budget tool today to help the public engage in the budgeting process.  Mayor Peduto also signed into law the 2022 Operating and Capital Budget and balanced 5 Year Plan.  The budget anticipates 2022 revenue collection of $658,802,293. That is an increase of almost $180 million compared to when Mayor Peduto took office. Mayor Peduto’s citywide equitable development strategy, enhancements to the city planning and permitting system, transformation of the URA, and international leadership has attracted new jobs and residents to the City of Pittsburgh. These polices have allowed the City of Pittsburgh to exit Act 47, create a 5-year balanced budget and invest in critical infrastructure, our city workers and facilities, parks and neighborhood investments, and affordable housing.  “The City of Pittsburgh is in a much stronger financial position today, than we were when I took office in 2015,” said Mayor William Peduto. “Our economic development strategy has allowed us to make record investments in equity, in our neighborhoods, in our infrastructure, and in our people. That being said, for Pittsburgh to truly have a long term financially sustainable future that can withstand tremendous economic shocks, we still need Harrisburg to provide meaningful reform of our antiquated tax structure.”  To allow residents to take a more active role in both the budgeting process and the tax reform conversation, Mayor Peduto and OMB released a new version of the Balancing Act budget simulation tool. This is a simple tool that increases transparency, encourages public participation, and provides insight to the difficult decisions elected officials are faced with. The tool provides an avenue for residents to adjust various revenues and expenditures to align resources that matter most to them. The goal is to increase participation and obtain feedback that is considered while identifying initiatives or services that are important to the public.  A new feature to the tool now will allow the opportunity for residents to create new taxes or adjust the taxation levels and see the impacts on the City revenues and services. The tool also informs residents whether the tax change requires legislative action from the state legislature, city council, or both to legally implement. Residents can explore the new tool here.City Residents can also continue to receive a tax receipt specific to their payments and participate in a capital budget simulation tool here. | 28/12/2021 14:38:46 |
| Office Of Community Health &amp; Safety Announces Opening Of Applications For Neighborhood Health &amp; Safety Academy | PITTSBURGH, PA (December 28, 2021) Mayor William Peduto and the Office of Community Health &amp; Safety has announced the opening of applications for the Neighborhood Health &amp; Safety Academy. The 2-month Academy will provide 20 community members with education and training, empowering residents to continue to play an active role in providing for the health, safety, and wellbeing of their neighbors. Applicants will participate in 10 sessions and receive a $600 stipend for their time. Pittsburgh residents are encouraged to apply here. Applications will be reviewed following the January 31st, 2022 application deadline.  In July 2021, the Office of Community Health and Safety announced a $17,500 grant awarded by the Staunton Farm Foundation to launch a Neighborhood Health &amp; Safety Academy. While community members are intimately familiar with the needs of their neighbors and neighborhoods, knowing the most effective way to meet those needs can be a challenge. The Neighborhood Health &amp; Safety Academy will provide education and information focused on housing, substance use and harm reduction, mental health, food security, violence prevention, police and criminal justice reform, homelessness, aging, and youth empowerment. Participants will also have access to free certifications and skills training in CPR, opioid overdose care, naloxone administration, mental health first aid, de-escalation, bleeding control, federal benefits application workshop, public housing application workshop, sexual assault survivor assistance and advocate training, financial empowerment, and motivational interviewing. “Community members are uniquely positioned to identify and understand the needs of their neighbors and are often best suited to provide assistance,” said Mayor William Peduto. “The Office of Community Health &amp; Safety is exploring innovative ways to prevent crises before they occur. The Neighborhood Health &amp; Safety Academy will empower residents who are already leaders within their communities to become more effective helpers and address the needs of their neighbors.”  Joni Schwager, executive director of the Staunton Farm Foundation said, “As a Foundation, we are committed to investing in the wellbeing of our neighbors and proud to fund the Neighborhood Health &amp; Safety Academy pilot to support the first class of leaders.”  About the Staunton Farm FoundationThe Staunton Farm Foundation is dedicated to improving the lives of people who live with mental illness and substance use disorders. The Foundation works to enhance behavioral health treatment, support, and recovery through grant making to nonprofit organizations in 10 southwestern Pennsylvania counties (Allegheny, Armstrong, Beaver, Butler, Fayette, Greene, Indiana, Lawrence, Washington, and Westmoreland). | 28/12/2021 10:11:17 |
| OCH&amp;S Expands Team to Reimagine Public Health and Safety | PITTSBURGH, PA (December 28, 2021) Mayor William Peduto and the Office of Community Health and Safety (OCH&amp;S) have expanded their team to address issues surrounding health, safety, and community access to care. The first three Community Social Workers joining OCH&amp;S will be focusing on crisis co-response and situation triage, mental and behavioral health resource connections, high utilizer engagement and care in partnership with Pittsburgh’s Bureaus of Fire and Emergency Medical Services, pre-charge diversion referral for youth and adults, and support for survivors of crime.  Anmol Baxi, MSW, was previously a Clinical Social Worker at UPMC Presbyterian Shadyside, working closely with outpatient clients, which included conducting psychosocial assessments and responding to mental and behavioral health crises.  Anmol also worked as an Emergency Department Social Worker and before that as a Behavioral Health Therapist Intern for UPMC, linking patients with housing, substance, and domestic violence resources, while also facilitating psychoeducational and Dialectical Behavioral Therapy for adults. Elizabeth Curtis, MSW, is a licensed social worker with experience in roles related to casework, service coordination and mental health therapy for students with emotional and behavioral disturbances, having worked at for several local social service organizations including Family Links Inc., Family Resources, and Allegheny County Child Youth and Family Services. In her role as a school-based therapist, she led daily group and individual therapy sessions for students in an Emotional Support setting, participated in individualized education plan meetings, and provided crisis interventions in the classroom setting as needed for her students. Beth also worked recently as a social worker at Primary Care Health Services, where she assisted with community engagement and supported Allegheny County Health Department around the efforts to combat Covid-19.” Nathaniel Morley, MSW, has spent the last 17 years of his career as a social worker at KidsVoice, where he engaged in assessments, investigation and advocacy. He also worked on the FamilyLinks Mobile Crisis Team, where he frequently responded to community crisis calls. Nate is trained and has certifications in Comprehensive Crisis Management (CCM), Non-Violent Physical Crisis Prevention and Intervention (CPI), Therapeutic Crisis Intervention (TCI) and Psychological First-Aid. The three new Community Social Workers will be joining the existing OCH&amp;S team in early January. More information about the OCH&amp;S team is available here. | 28/12/2021 16:06:36 |
| City of Pittsburgh &amp; Greater Pittsburgh Community Food Bank Launch Pilot Program | PITTSBURGH, PA (December 29, 2021) Mayor William Peduto, the Pittsburgh Bureau of Fire, and the Office of Community Health &amp; Safety is launching a new pilot program Wednesday in partnership with Greater Pittsburgh Community Food Bank (“The Food Bank”) to ensure Pittsburgh residents in crisis with immediate need and high engagements with Public Safety have access to shelf stable food.  This pilot is focused on meeting the immediate needs of residents who are identified through the Office of Community Health &amp; Safety’s and Pittsburgh Bureau of Fire’s High Utilizer Program. The program, developed by Lt. Chad Hirosky and Dr. Sheila Roth, receives referrals from firefighters and makes home visits to people who frequently call 911 for non-emergency health and safety situations. The goal of the program is to ensure that people maintain dignity and have proper care in their homes. Boxes of shelf stable food provided by the Food Bank will be delivered to these residents through responding firefighters.  The Food Bank will then be positioned to connect High Utilizers to pantries that meet their needs and location as well as connect them to further assistance such as SNAP enrollments through the Food Bank’s newly developed Community Connections Department.“This pilot program with the Pittsburgh Bureau of Fire and the Office of Community Health &amp; Safety is one more innovative tool in our toolbox to fulfill our mission, which is to feed people in need and mobilize our community to eliminate hunger.  When firefighters identify a household in crisis, we want to be able to provide them with food assistance as quickly as possible.  This new initiative gives families immediate support and then further connects them to resources that can provide stability in the future,” said President and CEO of Greater Pittsburgh Community Food Bank, Lisa Scales.   “Too many members of our community have unmet needs, including food insecurity, that impacts their mental and physical wellbeing,” said Mayor William Peduto.  “Working with the Pittsburgh Bureau of Fire and OCH&amp;S and the Food Bank, we are able to pair high utilizers of public safety services with shelf stable food to improve the overall health of our residents.” | 29/12/2021 10:09:53 |
| City's Director Of Management &amp; Budget Departs For New Opportunity | PITTSBURGH, PA (December 29, 2021) The Office of Mayor William Peduto has announced that Director in the Office of Management and Budget Kevin Pawlos is leaving his role with the City.  Pawlos started working for the City in August 2012, as a budget analyst in the Office of Management and Budget. He held many different roles throughout his time with the city, including Senior Budget Analyst, Operating Budget Manager, and Assistant Director of the Operating Budget. Mayor Peduto appointed him Director of the Office of Management and Budget in September 2019.  Under Pawlos’ leadership, the City’s Office of Management and Budget served as a strategic partner to ensure effective and efficient use of resources to sustain the delivery of quality services to residents, establish and maintain sound fiscal policies, and deliver a clear and accurate picture of the City’s current and future financial position. The Office of Management and Budget also navigated new financial challenges associated with the COVID-19 pandemic, including identifying budget cuts to help save the City from employee layoffs in 2021. Among his many accomplishments throughout his career with the City, Pawlos led efforts to:  - Receive an updated credit rating from S&amp;P to AA- in 2019 as well as favorable and stable credit ratings in 2021 despite the financial challenges of the COVID-19 pandemic. - Manage a grants office that secured 103 grants totaling $46 million since 2019 - Successfully transition to the use of electronic signatures and contract processing at the beginning of the COVID-19 pandemic. - Utilize a program-based and priority-based budgeting approach to the annual operating budget process. - Manage a city-wide fleet program that purchased several alternative fuel vehicles, including CNG refuse packers, hybrid police cruisers, and electric sedans and pickup trucks for city operations. “Kevin was a key member of our leadership team through a period of great economic uncertainty,” said Mayor William Peduto. “Kevin’s leadership and strategic approach helped the City transition from exiting Act 47 to building a healthy $120M rainy day fund to weathering the hit of COVID without any layoffs to now implementing a balanced budget plan for the next 5 years using key investments from the American Rescue Plan.” Pawlos’ last day with the City of Pittsburgh is will be in late January. He will be joining the Pittsburgh Water and Sewer Authority as the Deputy Director of Finance. | 29/12/2021 16:23:41 |
| Mayor Peduto Recognizes Historic Transformation of Department of Permits, Licenses, &amp; Inspections | In 2015, the Bureau of Building Inspection in the Department of Public Safety was reorganized into the Department of Permits, Licenses, and Inspections. The restructure focused on utilizing technology and certifying staff to properly administer and enforce construction code requirements and carry out code enforcement activities, which resulted in a 75% reduction of clerical staff, and a doubling of fully certified plan review and inspection staff by 2020. With a trained and fully certified staff, PLI adopted Service Level Agreements (SLA) for every function to dictate response times for plan reviews, inspection requests, and application intake, ensuring consistent and timely responses for customers and residents. Currently PLI exceeds all service level agreements.PLI achieved the fastest plan review times consistently and ever recorded, improving each year from 2015 through 2021. In 2021, PLI’s plan reviewers completed initial commercial construction reviews in an average of 20 days, two weeks faster than the 30-day service level agreement. For residential construction, initial reviews within 7 days, or in half the time of the standard 15-day service level agreement.In 2014, 44% of plan reviews were completed within the 30- and 15-day periods. Since 2018, 99.9% of the reviews meet the service level agreement even with 9,000 reviews annually and added reviews for fire alarm, fire suppression, energy, and accessibility. The volume of inspections has increased since 2018 when the department conducted 27,000 and in 2021 conducted 34,000 inspections.The department established the creation of “minor alterations” permits, to allow Application Technicians to issue repair permits same-day or next day to customers for work that did not require plan review.  In 2022, PLI will launch accelerated review services to allow customers to pay for faster reviews, and launch plan review meetings to meet before permit submission to provide guidance for a fee.  Technology plays a critical role in the transformation. Inspectors once equipped only with pen and paper, are now issued cell phones and laptops to take customer calls throughout the workday, schedule inspections on-the-go, and record inspection outcomes on site and in real time. Paper files have been replaced by a reliable system that includes photos, inspector notes, correspondence, and court tracking.Additionally, it has never been easier to apply for a permit or license in the City of Pittsburgh with the creation of OneStopPGH. Customers can submit applications concurrently to Permits, Licenses, and Inspections, City Planning, Fire, and the Department of Mobility and Infrastructure online 24/7 and pay with a credit card or e-check eliminating waiting in line or paying for parking Downtown."There is no department that has transformed more since I took office than PLI," said Mayor William Peduto. "I want to thank Directors Maura Kennedy and Sarah Kinter, as well as all of the hardworking staff in PLI. It is their vision, dedication, and hard work that has turned this department into a successful 21st century operation." PLI worked with City Council to update the licensing codes for the first time since the 1980s, right-sized and standardized fees, adopted the highest standards for demolition to minimize environmental impacts including adopting deconstruction demolition methods, and created a unit of vacant property inspectors to routinely inspect condemned structures.The reorganization of BBI to PLI also invested in employees in addition to certification and continuing education standards, all supervisors attend annual leadership, coaching, and conflict resolution trainings to improve departmental steering.  PLI has transformed from a largely white, male staff to a more racially and gender-diverse workplace. Through robust recruitment and support, PLI’s employees of color has tripled since 2014, and the number of women in technical roles has doubled. | 29/12/2021 12:29:26 |
| Mayor Peduto Highlights Successes of the Office of Community Health &amp; Safety in Reimagining 21st Century Public Health &amp; Safety | PITTSBURGH, PA (December 30, 2021) The Office of Community Health &amp; Safety (OCH&amp;S), created by Mayor William Peduto has developed nationally-recognized partnerships to create a new model of public health and safety.  - Joined CONNECT, Allegheny County Health Department, Allegheny County Department of Human Services, and partners countywide to develop Law Enforcement Assisted Diversion (LEAD) in the City of Pittsburgh   - Partnered with Allegheny Health Network’s Urban Health and Street Medicine Program, which worked with more than 700 people through more 4,000 unique interactions and more than 500 Public Safety co-responses and opened the Downtown Community Outreach Hub  - Received American Rescue Plan funding to expand the AHN co-response partnership citywide   - Hired the City’s first Community Social Workers to enhance co-response, high utilizer programming, and victim assistance support   - Supported Mayor Peduto’s executive order decriminalizing the possession, distribution, and use of fentanyl test strips for harm reduction purposes in the City of Pittsburgh   - Started the High Utilizer Program in June, in partnership with Pittsburgh Bureau of Fire, to work with individuals with untreated medical issues or high engagement with 911, which included support of 41 people with more than 500 calls to the Pittsburgh Bureau of Fire via 911   - Expanded the High Utilizer Program in December to work with Pittsburgh EMS to connect people with social and health services   - Awarded technical assistance by the International Association of Chiefs of Police and the Bureau of Justice Assistance as one of three cities nationally to develop crisis response and intervention teams and entered into a data sharing agreement with University of Cincinnati to improve crisis response   - Worked with more than 800 survivors of crime in the City of Pittsburgh, in partnership with the Office of Community Services &amp; Violence Prevention, to ensure that people had access to services, support, and legal resources   - Initiated the country’s third and Commonwealth’s first prehospital buprenorphine program in partnership with Pittsburgh Bureau of Emergency Medical Services (EMS) to treat individuals experiencing opioid-related withdrawal symptoms or people post-overdose   - Trained more than 300 city staff members (including police recruits, City Law Department, City Parks staff, lifeguards), city authority staff, and Civic Leadership Academy participants to recognize and respond to opioid-related overdoses and incorporated overdose prevention training for all new City of Pittsburgh employees as part of the Human Resources and Civil Service Department’s orientation   - Created the overdose dashboard, in partnership with Pittsburgh EMS, to ensure regular sharing of opioid-related overdose insights   - Worked with Allegheny Health Network, Highmark, Pittsburgh EMS and CitiParks to launch SwimSafe, a program designed to mitigate risks of unintentional injury and death associated with recreational swimming for children, distributing personal floatation devices and resources to more than 200 Pittsburgh families   - Developed the Neighborhood Health &amp; Safety Academy, with support from the Staunton Farm Foundation, to empower residents through series of sessions to discuss services and resources that exist within Pittsburgh; launched community applications. Apply here.   - Launched the Community Health &amp; Safety Listening Campaign to engage with all residents and learn from neighbors how our office and communities can develop and sustain successful services and partnerships [take the survey here]   For more information about OCH&amp;S, reach out to ochspgh@pittsburghpa.gov or find us as www.pittsburghpa.gov/ochs | 30/12/2021 10:17:58 |
| Mayor Peduto &amp; Welcoming Pittsburgh Release Annual Report | PITTSBURGH, PA (December 30, 2021) The City of Pittsburgh’s Welcoming Pittsburgh Initiative has released their 2021 Annual Report. Welcoming Pittsburgh is an immigrant, refugee, and asylee inclusion strategy launched by Mayor William Peduto in 2014.The Annual Report details the work accomplished in 2021. In 2015, the City launched the Welcoming Pittsburgh Roadmap in partnership with 40 leaders in immigrant, refugee, and international communities and over 3,000 community members. The roadmap provides a set of actionable strategies that dictate what the city needs to accomplish to create a welcoming city for all. The report includes progress towards fulfilling the actions stated in the Welcoming Pittsburgh Roadmap while addressing other community priorities. Inside the report you will: - Learn of the final subcommittee updates within the Welcoming Pittsburgh Community calls - Learn about the City of Pittsburgh achieving Certified Welcoming (being the 12th City in the Country to accomplish this)  - Learn about the renting to refugee program held to increase housing opportunities for our new neighbors - Learn about the Cross-Cultural training that was developed for Public Safety - Learn about the newly created Office of Immigrant and Refugee Affairs “Welcoming our foreign-born Pittsburghers has been a priority of this administration since I first took office. Welcoming Pittsburgh emerged as a way to make our City a place with thriving diverse neighborhoods where, no matter your origins, you welcome your neighbor because you understand that your success is shared.” Mayor William Peduto. “Now with a new permanent office, our hope is to continue to expand on our existing work, further community partnerships and align our mission with the new Administration for greater impact,” said Feyisola Akintola of the Office of Immigrant and Refugee Affairs.You can find out more about Welcoming Pittsburgh work over the years hereYou can read the 2021 annual report here | 30/12/2021 18:18:31 |
| Senior Administration Officials Announce Departure From City Government | PITTSBURGH, PA (December 30, 2021) Three additional members of the Peduto Administration have announced their departure from City government.   Lindsay Powell serves as Mayor Peduto’s Assistant Chief of Staff and Policy Director. She began with the City in 2017 as a Policy Analyst and was promoted to Assistant Chief of Staff in 2018. In her role, Lindsay has:  - Directed the Mayor’s policy agenda around gender equity, LQBTQIA+ community affairs, housing policy, immigrant and refugee affairs, and financial empowerment.   - Led efforts to reform Pittsburgh’s Land Bank and reinvigorated the city's land recycling, and vacant land maintenance work. - Created more opportunities for young people in the City's workforce development initiatives. - Served as a board member of the URA, helping to steer Pittsburgh’s equitable development strategies.In January, Lindsay will be joining InnovatePGH as Workforce Strategies Director to build a cohesive regional tech training ecosystem and remove barriers of entry to the innovation economy. “Lindsay has been one of my most trusted senior advisors over the past several years. Her leadership working with youth, food security, housing policy, equitable development and so much more has left a positive impact on Pittsburgh that will be felt for generations to come,” said Mayor William Peduto.    James Hill serves as Mayor Peduto’s Executive Assistant. He joined Mayor Peduto’s Administration in November of 2015 after working in Councilman R. Daniel Lavelle’s office. James, a life-long Pittsburgher, is a graduate of Schenley High School and Point Park University and poured his love of Pittsburgh into his work in City Hall. As Executive Assistant, James has:   - Attended all events with the Mayor to provide on-site support  - Managed City of Pittsburgh social media accounts and branding standard, as well as press coordination at the end of the term  - Served as a board member for Pittsburgh’s Historic Review Commission and the Pittsburgh Marathon   - Coordinated special events in the City, including Christmas at the City-County Building, weddings at the building, Independence Day celebrations, and so much more that added the physical beauty of our City  In January, James will be joining the Pittsburgh Downtown Partnership as the Director of Constituent Services.  “James has been by my side every day for the past eight years. He has not only supported me personally, but has always put the City of Pittsburgh first. His passion for the history of the city, architecture of Pittsburgh, and official protocols and practices helped to beautify our great city,” said Mayor William Peduto.    Alaa Mohamed joined the Peduto Administration in 2019 as a Policy Coordinator. In her work, she provided general support to the policy team with a particular focus on immigrant and refugee affairs. In her work, Alaa has: - Worked to create the new independent and permanent Office of Immigrant and Community Affairs - Helped to lead efforts to have Pittsburgh recognized as the country’s 12th Certified Welcoming Place for Immigrants, Refugees, and New Americans - Worked with city departments to implement language access across city government - Helped to provide direct financial assistance to immigrants and refugees during COVID In January, she will join the Department of Innovation &amp; Performance as the Senior Civic Innovation Specialist focusing inclusive innovation in Pittsburgh.  “Alaa has poured her heart and soul into making Pittsburgh a more welcoming and inclusive city for all. Thanks to her work, Pittsburgh has become a national leader in providing support to new Americans in our community,” said Mayor William Peduto. | 30/12/2021 13:20:24 |
| Pittsburgh Vaccination Mandate Update | PITTSBURGH, PA (December 30, 2021) In order to protect City of Pittsburgh employees as well as the public they serve, Mayor Peduto issued an Executive Order on November 1, 2021, requiring COVID-19 vaccination for all City employees. As of December 22, 2021, City employees need to be fully vaccinated for COVID-19, except for circumstances where an employee has an approved or pending exception or extension.The City has achieved 95% compliance - a 10% increase from last week.For those employees who are not yet in compliance, discipline in accordance with the City’s progressive discipline policy began. At any point, if an employee gets their first COVID-19 shot, the City will pause further disciplinary action to give the employee a reasonable amount of time to become fully vaccinated. This next stage of the process will not result in disruptions to City services and operations and will result in more employees becoming vaccinated. | 30/12/2021 21:50:30 |
| City Unveils Second Avenue Electric Vehicle Fleet Charging Depot and Announces Grant for New Electric Recycling Trucks | PITTSBURGH, PA (December 30, 2021) Mayor William Peduto, the Public Parking Authority of Pittsburgh (PPA), and the Duquesne Light Company (DLC) today announced completion of the largest Electric Vehicle (EV) charging installation in Western Pennsylvania at the City of Pittsburgh's Second Avenue Parking Plaza. The installation included 15 dual-hose Level 2 chargers, which fully charge a vehicle in 6-8 hours, and will be able to charge 30 EVs simultaneously to service the City’s growing fleet of EVs.Currently, the City fleet is charged using five level 2 solar charging units. This installation will allow for those solar units to be dispersed throughout the City for public use and lays the groundwork for future public-use chargers.This project was made possible by a $135,000 Alternative Fuels Incentive grant from the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection, and an $189,403 COVID-19 Restart Grant from the Pennsylvania Energy Authority.The Second Avenue Parking Lot will become the City’s main electric fleet charging depot, where 70 electric vehicles will be converted and charged by 2026. The City fleet currently operates 26 fully electric sedans, with 70 additional EVs and multiple new charging sites planned for 2022-23 thanks to Mayor Peduto's investment of American Rescue Plan (ARP) dollars into electric vehicle purchasing. This forwards the City’s Climate Action Plan goals to reduce transportation-related emissions, increase vehicle electrification and convert to a 100% fossil-fuel free fleet by 2030.Additionally, Mayor Peduto announced the City has received a $2.8M grant from the EPA's Targeted Airshed Grant to purchase 5 new electric recycling trucks and the associated charging infrastructure to be installed at the City's Environmental Services headquarters. This grant was received through the cooperation of the Allegheny County Health Department. "This is an incredible moment for City government," said Mayor William Peduto. "Not only have we created the largest EV charging station in Western Pennsylvania, we are now adding electric recycling trucks to our fleet. These actions bring us one stop closer to our 2030 Climate goals." | 30/12/2021 15:23:33 |
| Mayor Peduto Announces Over $200,000 in Recreation Grants for the City | PITTSBURGH, PA (December 31, 2021) Mayor William Peduto announced today that the City of Pittsburgh has received two grants from the PA Department of Conservation and Natural Resources (DCNR) to support City recreation.First, the City received $112,900 to support the rehabilitation of the Three Rivers Heritage Trail (Mayor Tom Murphy Trail) on the North Side from the Herr’s Island (Washington's Landing) Switchback to Heinz Street. Second, the City received a $100,000 grant to support the rehabilitation of West Penn Park in Polish Hill to include new play equipment, improved ADA access, and landscaping.  “This is a great way to close out the year,” said Mayor William Peduto. “My administration has invested heavily in our city parks, trails, riverfronts, and urban recreation. I want to thank Governor Wolf and DCNR for yet another grant to support this continued investment.” | 31/12/2021 12:59:20 |
| No results found. |
Back to top
Ready
jasujazumdinski