Skip to main content
opens in new tab or window
In This Section

Trash &amp; Recycling  - Collection Schedule and Newsletter
Curbside Pick Up
Commercial Recycling
Special Event Recycling
Drop-Off Info &amp; Additional Resources    - Recycling Drop-Off Locations
Electronic Waste and Household Hazardous Waste Disposal
Waste Disposal Resources
Christmas Tree Recycling
Zero Waste
Let's Talk Trash Webinar

Anti-Litter and Illegal Dumping
311
A - Z: Frequently Visited
ADA &amp; Disability Rights
Snow Removal
Road Maintenance
Food Programs
Pets &amp; Animals
Community Programming
Immigrant and Refugee Affairs
Tree Resources

Electronic Waste and Household Hazardous Waste Disposal
Electronic Waste Recycling
Pennsylvania Resources Council Appointments(show below)
The City of Pittsburgh is partnering with the Pennsylvania Resources Council to offer electronic waste recycling to city residents! Please follow the instructions below to sign up for your appointment and to learn about accepted materials on their website!
Registration is required
Register for E-Waste events with our vendor Pennsylvania Resources Council!
Registration is free, but material disposal is charged at a cost of $0.35 per pound.
When: Weekly March 2025 through October 2025 / Tuesdays 2 – 6 p.m. &amp; Thursdays 3 – 7 p.m.

Register with our vendor Pennsylvania Resources Council here for Tuesdays March through October 2025
Register with our vendor Pennsylvania Resources Council here for Thursdays March through October 2025

No collection on June 10, November 26, 28, December 24, 26, 31, &amp; January 2
If you have questions about the e-waste events, please email recyclepgh@prc.org or call 412-489-9299.
Procedures:

Please arrive on site at your allotted time.
Place materials to be recycled in trunk or truck bed if able
Payment is accepted via cash, check, debit, or credit card

jasujazumdinski
Why must I recycle my Electronic Waste?
Due to the passing of the Covered Device Recycling Act (CDRA) in 2010 it banned televisions, computers, and other electronic devices from being placed at the curb and sent to landfill. The Pennsylvania state law was imposed by the Department of Environmental Protection.
Covered Devices Recycling Act (CDRA)
For more information about CDRA Pa Act 108 or for a more comprehensive list of recyclers, please visit the Department of Environmental Protection’s CDRA Program Page.
Evolution E-cycling(show below)
Residents can drop-off office/audio equipment for free at their Southside location or at 1 of 12 Guardian storage locations for free.
TVs, CRT monitors and printers have to be taken to their Southside location. TVs and CRTs are $1/lb and printers are $5-10 each.
Click here to learn more on their website!
Frick Park Environmental Center(show below)
City of Pittsburgh residents can drop off disposable, single-use alkaline batteries inside the Frick Park Environmental Center free of charge.
Household Hazardous Waste Recycling
Pennsylvania Resources Council Appointments(show below)
The City of Pittsburgh is partnering with the Pennsylvania Resources Council to offer household hazardous waste recycling to city residents! Please follow the instructions below to sign up for your appointment and to learn about accepted materials on their website!
Registration is required
Register for HHW events with our vendor Pennsylvania Resources Council!
Registration is free, but material disposal is charged at a cost per pound.
WHEN: Saturdays 8 am – 1 pm:

November 15 (Electronics accepted as well)

Register here with our vendor the Pennsylvania Resources Council for the November 15th HHW event
If you have questions about your appointment, please email recyclepgh@prc.org or call 412-489-9299.
jasujazumdinski
Procedures:

Please arrive on site at your allotted time.
Place materials to be recycled in trunk or truck bed if able
Payment is accepted via cash, check, debit, or credit card

Statewide Household Hazardous Waste Information
Household Hazardous Wastes (HHW) are those waste produced in our households that are hazardous in nature, but are not regulated as hazardous waste, under federal and state laws. Click here to learn more.
Do not place the following items out with your normal trash or recycling for curbside pick-up:

TVs
Monitors
Printers
CFL Lightbulbs
All Peripherals - Keyboards, Mice, External Drives and anything plugged into a computer
Household Hazardous materials such as propane tanks, liquid paint, pesticides, corrosives, aerosols, oil or antifreeze.

For additional Electronic and Household Waste and Recycling Resources
last updated: 09/18/2025
Back to top
Ready
jasujazumdinski