opens in new tab or window
OneStopPGH Tips for Small Businesses
These links change page section content below
Overview
Zoning Review
Home Occupations
Permits, Licenses and Inspections
Mobility and Infrastructure
Some Additional Considerations
Overview
Starting a new business in the City of Pittsburgh typically requires some approvals from city including the Department of City Planning (DCP) and the Department of Permits, Licenses and Inspections (PLI). Depending on where the business is operating or how much work is being done on a building, it may also require review by the Department of Mobility and Infrastructure (“DOMI”).
The OneStopPGH Counter is staffed with PLI, DCP and DOMI representatives who can help you understand what types of permits and reviews will be required for your business or project. They can help you get started on OneStopPGH, the City’s online permitting portal.
Development Review starts when you file a Building and Development Application through OneStopPGH. Staff can assist when you make an appointment to stop by the OneStopPGH Counter at 412 Boulevard of the Allies.
Zoning Review
Any new construction or new business use (even without construction) requires zoning review – this review checks to make sure the proposed business use is in line with Pittsburgh's zoning code. The zoning code regulates which uses are permitted in different areas of the city, and includes standards for landscaping, design, parking, and other elements. It also outlines the public process required for certain developments.
While exploring locations, be sure to check whether your proposed business would be permitted in the area you’re thinking of operating in. Please consult the Zoning Use Table for permitted uses and the Pittsburgh Zoning Map to determine the zoning district your property is in.
For zoning review, the following information is typically required:
For a new use in a new or existing building, provide a description of what the business will be.
Provide floor plans that note the location of the use and its area in square footage. This is required when the use occupies a portion of a building or if there are multiple uses.
If there are any exterior alterations to the building or site, or if a new building is being constructed, a site plan is required that notes the location of the work. Please see the Site plan requirements for what to include on the site plan.
Some projects require additional processes. For example, if a use is not typically permitted or will not meet some other standard of the code, a hearing may be required at the Zoning Board of Adjustment (“ZBA”). Some types of uses automatically require ZBA approval – these are called “special exceptions.”
Some projects also require a hearing at the Planning Commission or City Council. These are typically large projects or substantial new construction.
You are encouraged to reach out to the local Registered Community Organizations ("RCOs") where your small business would be located. Community outreach is required if your project needs review by a board or commission. You can find information on RCOs here or contact the Department of City Planning Neighborhood Planners to help make the connection.
jasujazumdinski
Home Occupations
If you are planning to start a business in your own home, it may be considered “home occupation” under zoning regulations. There are specific standards that must be met in order for the city to consider a business a home occupation. You can read this at Zoning Code Section 912.05.
A home occupation still needs a Building and Development Application. The following information would be required:
Provide a brief narrative of the proposed home occupation. Please see the Zoning Code requirements for what qualifies as a home occupation in 912.05. and make sure your information shows how it will meet these standards. Please also see Zoning FAQs for details.
A site plan will be required if there are any exterior alterations or site improvements.
If the Home Occupation is for a childcare use for 3 or fewer children, there is an exemption from the Home Occupation standards in 912.05.B
Permits, Licenses and Inspections
The Department of Permits, Licenses and Inspections reviews new construction and business occupancies against international codes. The following types of work require a permit from PLI:
To construct, enlarge, alter, repair, move, demolish or change the occupancy of a building, structure, or facility.
To erect, install, enlarge, alter, repair, remove, convert or replace any electrical, gas, mechanical, or plumbing system.
PLI reviews most projects under the same Building and Development Application (BDA) as the zoning review. The OneStopPGH portal will identify required documents based on the permit type, structure type, work type, and work scope you have applied for.  If you have questions as to whether your work will require stamped drawings for review, please see PLI’s Standard Permit Application Requirements Guideline, contact pliapptech@pittsburghpa.gov or stop by the counter.
Note: You may be required to provide stamped, official drawings from a licensed architect or engineer before obtaining a Certificate of Occupancy. Work with OneStopPH staff to see if this applies to you as early as possible, so you can plan ahead.
jasujazumdinski
Mobility and Infrastructure
The Department of Mobility and Infrastructure regulates work within the public right-of-way; that includes the street, curb, sidewalk, and public trails. DOMI approval is often required when new or altered parking is proposed, when a curb is cut to create a driveway, and when a use is proposed which may generate substantial traffic, parking and circulation issues. DOMI also reviews encroachments, like signs and awnings, when they project over the sidewalk or street.
This page includes information on various DOMI permits. Some of the most common types of permits a small business may be expected to complete for DOMI are Curb Cut and Encroachment Permits, depending on the amount of work planned. Others may also be required.
Some Additional Considerations
This list is not meant to be comprehensive. Please ensure you are meeting all other relevant local, county, state, and federal regulations.
City of Pittsburgh
Addressing: If you are creating a new tenant space or a new building, you’ll need to apply for an address. There is no cost to request a new address. Please see this website or email addressing@pittsburghpa.gov.
Licensing: Depending on the type of business you are starting, you may also need a PLI license to operate in addition to any relevant permits. Check the activities requiring licenses with the Department of Permits, Licenses, and Inspections. PLI Registrations may also apply.
Childcare: If applying for childcare use, please also consult and comply with the City of Pittsburgh Department of Permits, Licenses, and Inspections' Registration requirements for childcare.
Registration: Businesses in the City of Pittsburgh need to register with the Department of Finance. Learn more here.
Film, Special Events, or activities in City of Pittsburgh parks: If you are looking for permits related to film, special events, or activities in City of Pittsburgh parks, here is a good place to start:
City of Pittsburgh Office of Film and Event Management for Special Events Permits (Email: ofem@pittsburghpa.gov)
Recreation & Events - Park Permits for shelter and pavilion rentals or sports field rentals (Email: dpwfields&parkshelters@pittsburghpa.gov)
jasujazumdinski
Allegheny County
Food Safety: Food-related businesses or non-food businesses with food elements are regulated by the Allegheny County Health Department regulations for food safety. Be sure to meet relevant permitting requirements.
Plumbing: If you will be doing work related to utility lines or connecting utilities to new construction, please contact the Pittsburgh Water. Plumbing work is regulated by the Allegheny County Health Department Plumbing Division.
Asbestos: Your renovation or demolition may require a permit from the Allegheny County Health Department for Asbestos Abatement. Learn more and avoid fines of up to $25,000 per violation per day at their Asbestos Renovation Guide.
Commonwealth of Pennsylvania
Childcare: If applying for a childcare use, please also consult the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania Child Care Regulations for additional state requirements.
The following links change the page section content above NextZoning Review
The following links change the page section content above PreviousOverview
The following links change the page section content above NextHome Occupations
The following links change the page section content above PreviousZoning Review
The following links change the page section content above NextPermits, Licenses and Inspections
The following links change the page section content above PreviousHome Occupations
The following links change the page section content above NextMobility and Infrastructure
The following links change the page section content above PreviousPermits, Licenses and Inspections
The following links change the page section content above NextSome Additional Considerations
The following links change the page section content above PreviousMobility and Infrastructure
last updated: 08/15/2025
Back to top
Ready
jasujazumdinski