Skip to main content
opens in new tab or window
Zoning

The Division of Zoning and Development Review (Zoning Division) of the Department of City Planning administers the City of Pittsburgh Zoning Code and Historic Preservation Code. The Zoning Division is the first stop for getting most construction permits in the City of Pittsburgh. The approval processes involved vary by project type, the scope of work, and location (see the Department of Permits, Licenses, and Inspections for more information).
Quick Links

Pittsburgh Zoning Map
Pittsburgh Zoning Code
Historic Preservation Code

Primary Roles and Responsibilities of the Zoning Division

Regulates land use within the City of Pittsburgh
Reviews interior/exterior renovations, additions/expansions, and new construction
Initiates zone changes and zoning code text amendments
Shapes public realm through the design review process
Establishes and regulates local Historic Designations
Regulates consolidations and subdivisions

What are the codes and regulations administered?
The City of Pittsburgh Zoning Code regulates land use and activities within the City boundaries. The intent of zoning regulations is to allow property owners the reasonable use of their property insofar as the use is not detrimental to abutting properties or to the neighborhood. The City of Pittsburgh is divided into different Zoning Districts that regulate the potential uses of a property. Interactive maps show the zoning and parcel information.
Note: the current Certificate(s) of Occupancy for particular property documents explain how that property is legally allowed to be used.

The City of Pittsburgh Zoning Code (Title 9) is hosted by General Code, found here.
The City of Pittsburgh’s Historic Preservation Code (Title 11) is hosted by General Code here. Additional guidelines can be found here.
The Subdivision Regulations and Standards of the City Planning Commission govern all consolidations and subdivisions in the City of Pittsburgh.

Zoning FAQ\
\
Get answers to your frequently asked questions about zoning in the City of Pittsburgh!
Planning Application and Process\
\
Find applications reviewed by the Department of City Planning here.
Planning Reviews, Public Notices and Public Hearings\
\
Applications submitted to the Department of City Planning for review may require Zoning Review and/or one or more of the Planning reviews, public notices and/or public hearings depending on the location and scope of work.
Housing\
\
The City of Pittsburgh is committed to implementing policies that promote, produce, and preserve affordable housing options throughout the City that are safe, healthy and let all residents thrive.
last updated: 04/24/2025
Back to top
Ready
jasujazumdinski