opens in new tab or window
In This Section
Police  - Police Zones
Police Officer Recruitment
File a Police Report
Submit a Tip
Submit a Silent Complaint
Compliment an Officer
Police Data Portal
Branches
About Police    - Mission & Values
History of the Badge
Policies and Procedural Manual
Fallen Officer
Cops & Kids Summer Camp Program
Fire
Animal Care & Control
Emergency Medical Services
Office of Community Health and Safety
Alerts
Public Safety
Fallen Officer
A Part of America Died(show below)
Somebody killed a policeman today,
And part of America died.
A piece of our country he swore to protect,
Will be buried with him at his side.
The suspect that shot him will stand up in court,
With counsel demanding his rights.
While a young widowed mother must work for her kids,
And spend many long lonely nights.
The beat he walked was a battle field too
just as if he had gone off to war.
Though the flag of our nation won't fly at half mast,
To his name they will add a gold star.
Yes, somebody killed a policeman today,
In your town or mine,
While we slept in comfort behind locked doors,
A cop put his life on the line.
Now his ghost walks a beat on a dark city street,
And stands at each new rookies' side.
He answered the call,of himself and gave his all,
And a part of America died.
The Law Enforcement Officers Memorial, Inc., County of Allegheny, is a nonprofit organization. We are police officers, survivors and private citizens working together to build and maintain a memorial in the City of Pittsburgh, the county seat of Allegheny County. The memorial honors all Law Enforcement Officers who have made the "Supreme Sacrifice." It also honors all law enforcement personnel, living and dead. The Law Enforcement Officers Memorial is located at North Shore and Art Rooney Avenue near Heinz Field.
Any donation made to the Memorial is tax deductible. Send your donations to:
Law Enforcement Officers Memorial, Inc.
c/o Lodge 91 F.O.P
676 W. 8th Avenue
W. Homestead, PA 15120
"Lest We Forget"
Find List of Fallen Officers
last updated: 04/22/2025
Back to top
Ready
jasujazumdinski