Home Page page has loaded. Home Page page has loaded.
Click here or press any key to continue.
Welcome to the City of Pittsburgh's Online Career Center!
The positions listed on this page are open to all applicants.  To apply for a position listed below, click on the position title and then the "Apply" link!
Note: Internal postings and bids open only to current City of Pittsburgh employees are listed on the Internal Job Announcements and Bids page under Menu.
Internship and Volunteer positions are listed on the Intern and Volunteer Opportunities page under Menu.
An email address is required to apply for positions with the City of Pittsburgh.  If you do not have a current email address, you may sign up for email via one of the free sites (i.e. Hotmail, Yahoo or Gmail etc.). It only takes a few minutes to register.
*If you have previously applied for a position with the City of Pittsburgh prior to July 1, 2016 and do not have a NEOGOV account, you will need to create a new NEOGOV account to apply for a position.
Please Note:  If you have already created a Governmentjobs.com NEOGOV account with another jurisdiction, you do not have to create a new account with us.  Your existing user name and password, as well as your saved profile, can be used to access our new system.
If this is the first time you are applying using the NEOGOV eRecruit application process you will need to create an account and select a Username and Password.  After your account has been established, you can build an application by clicking on the "Build Job Application" link. This application can be saved and used to apply for more than one job announcement. You can also login to check the status of submitted applications.  Click Help & Support under Menu for detailed directions.
BEFORE YOU APPLY FOR A POSITION: Carefully review the Job Announcement for each position before you submit your online application. The Job Announcement lists the General Application Requirements you must satisfy or your application will be disqualified. These requirements pertain to City of Pittsburgh residency, driver's license, resume, pre-employment/promotional background investigations, and submitting documentation to verify your post secondary education/training.
The Job Announcement also lists the Qualifying Requirements (Work Experience and/or Education/Training), Civil Service required examinations, and the overall Position Summary and Job Description.
It is important that your application shows details for all of the relevant education and experience that you possess. Applications for Civil Service (CS) classifications may be deemed ineligible if incomplete.
Applications are only accepted for posted job announcements.
SYSTEM REQUIREMENTS: The new NEOGOV application requires Microsoft Internet Explorer 9 or higher, Mozilla Firefox 25, Google Chrome, OR Safari. If you have an older version, go to your preferred search engine (e.g., Bing, Google or Yahoo!) and search for the most up-to-date version of your preferred browser. Click on the links provided to go to Microsoft, Mozilla, Google or Safari and follow the directions provided.
If you need assistance with your Neogov applicant login (username and/or password), contact NEOGOV at 855-524-5627.
The City of Pittsburgh is an Equal Opportunity Employer and values diversity at all levels of its workforce.
https://www.eeoc.gov/sites/default/files/2023-06/22-088_EEOC_KnowYourRights6.12ScreenRdr.pdf
SearchClear Search FieldSearch
Grid View
List View
Sort
Filter
0 jobs found
Please verify your email address
Verify Email
jasujazumdinski
City of Pittsburgh Careers
Current Job Announcements
Menu
Close Menu
City of Pittsburgh Careers
Current Job Announcements
Selected
Internal Bids and Job Announcements - City Employees Only
Internship and AmeriCorps VISTA Opportunities!!
Job Descriptions
Job Categories
City of Pittsburgh Homepage
Pittsburgh Police Recrutment
NextDoor
Help & Support
;
CancelClearSIGN
Save
We've updated our Privacy Policy and Terms of Use. Please, read and accept changes.
Effective date: August 19, 2025
NEOGOV PRIVACY POLICY
Contents
1.Introduction; Scope of this Policy.
2.Where We Are a Service Provider.
3.Personal Data We Collect About You and Why.
4.Cookies and Similar Tracking Technologies.
5.Online Analytics and Advertising.
6.Information We Disclose.
7.International Users.
8.Your Data Rights and Choices.
9.Notice to California Residents.
10.Your Rights and Control under EU GDPR.
11.Data Security and Integrity.
12.Retention and Removal.
13.Right to Revise.
14.Contact Details.
15.Privacy Contacts.
Introduction; Scope of this Policy.
The purpose of this Privacy Policy (the “Policy”) is to describe how we collect, use, store, protect, and disclose personal data online and offline either via our websites or related applications. This Policy applies to personal data we collect or use, and applications owned or controlled by Governmentjobs.com, Inc. (DBA “NEOGOV”), including our related brands NEOGOV.com, NEOED.com, PowerDMS.com, Governmentjobs.com, Schooljobs.com, and our mobile app(s) (collectively referred to as the “Services”), or affiliated companies (collectively referred to herein as “Governmentjobs”, "Schooljobs", “NEOGOV”, “NEOED”, “PowerDMS”, “we”, “us”, or “our”).
By using any part of the Services you agree that you have read this Policy, your personal data will be processed as described herein, and you agree to be bound by this Policy. This Policy is incorporated into our Terms of Use. Definitions not explicitly defined herein shall retain the meaning as prescribed in the Terms of Use. Any dispute related to privacy is subject to the Terms of Use and this Policy, including limitations on liability.
This Policy does not apply to (1) personal data controlled by our Customers (employers that utilize our Services, described further below), which is governed by our separate agreements and related data processing agreements with such Customers; (2) personal data collected by unaffiliated sites that link to or are accessible from our Services; (3) personal data our partners may collect directly from you and control; (4) personal data collected and processed by us about our employees or job applicants responding to our job offers; and, (5) non-personal data derived from personal data, including any data that is aggregated, de-identified, or anonymized, statistical data, insights, or other predictive data that is sufficiently different from your personal data that it cannot be reversed engineered through reasonable means, or otherwise identified from analysis or further processing of the derived data (collectively referred to as the “De-Identified Platform Data”). We use De-Identified Platform Data to provide Customers with useful and relevant insights, build features and data services, and improve our Services. Because De-Identified Platform Data does not identify you personally, we can use and disclose it in our discretion.
We are the controller for the personal data discussed in this Policy, except as noted in the “Where We Are a Service Provider” section below.
jasujazumdinski
Where We Are a Service Provider
Our Customers are organizations such as federal, state, local, tribal, or other municipal government agencies (including administrative agencies, departments, and offices thereof), private businesses, and educational institutions (including without limitation K-12 schools, colleges, universities, and vocational schools), who use our Services to evaluate job applicants and/or manage their relationship with their personnel. When we provide our Services to our Customers, the Customer generally controls and manages the personal data (which may include sensitive personal data such as biometric information or your precise geolocation information for timeclock tracking, health information, and demographic information like race and ethnicity related to the employment relationship), and we process personal data as a "data processor" or "service provider" (as these terms are defined in applicable data protection laws). Any use of analytics or engagement technologies that process personal data, including tools that analyze user behavior or associate usage with identifiers, are implemented solely as a data processor or service provider in these scenarios, and such data is not used by NEOGOV for its own commercial purposes. Our legal obligations as a processor and service provider are set out in our Customer contracts and policies. Our Customers, and not us, decide what types of personal data to collect to manage their relationships with you. For example, a Customer may choose to enable collection of biometric or precise location data for its employees using our time and attendance product. We process such data only at the direction of that Customer and do not use it for our own purposes.
Further, if you apply to a job or your employer utilizes our Services to manage their relationship with you, the personal data collected about you is generally controlled by the employer (our Customer). This Policy does not describe the processing of your personal data by our Customers, and we encourage you to visit the Customer’s privacy policy for information about their privacy practices. For example, if you applied to a job at a local state agency, you should contact that agency with any questions you may have relating to the personal data processing by that state agency within our Services.
Where we serve as a data processor or service provider, our Customer contracts and policies require us to either instruct you to contact our Customer, or redirect your inquiry to our Customer.
jasujazumdinski
Personal Data We Collect About You and Why.
In this Section we set out general categories of personal data we may collect and the purpose for using your personal data, including the personal data collected and processed over the past year. We collect and process personal data to provide you the Services, fulfill our contractual responsibility to deliver the Services to our Customers, fulfill your requests, and pursue our legitimate interests and our business and commercial purposes. We also automatically collect data during your usage of the Services and collect other personal data about you from other sources. Your personal data will only be collected and used for purposes stated herein, where you provide additional consent, or as required by law or regulation - including national security or law enforcement requirements.
Information Provided by You.
We collect personal data from you directly when you visit our Services from either your computer, mobile phone, or other device, attend one our events, or communicate with our personnel. The categories of personal data we collect from you, involve the following: