Skip to main content
opens in new tab or window
In This Section

Trash &amp; Recycling  - Collection Schedule and Newsletter
Curbside Pick Up
Commercial Recycling
Special Event Recycling
Drop-Off Info &amp; Additional Resources
Anti-Litter and Illegal Dumping
311
A - Z: Frequently Visited
ADA &amp; Disability Rights
Snow Removal
Road Maintenance
Food Programs
Pets &amp; Animals
Community Programming
Immigrant and Refugee Affairs
Tree Resources

Special Event Recycling

Vendors Must Register &amp; Review The Links Below

Event Registration Form
Sustainable Event Guidelines(PDF, 659KB)
Sustainable Event Planning Guide For Vendors(PDF, 370KB)
2025 Equipment Pricing(PDF, 164KB)

Organizers of special events that expect 200 or more individuals per day are required, under City Code §619.02(PDF, 266KB), to separate recyclables from municipal waste. The following materials are required to be recycled for both pre and post recycling activities at special events:
Recycling Guidelines
Good news! Now you can recycle more containers! As of January 2025, we are now accepting butter tubs, cottage cheese, yogurt, and sour cream containers in the recycling!
Mixed Paper Plastic Glass Cardboard Metal
Mixed Paper

White office paper
Newspaper
Magazines
Hardcover/softcover books
Catalogs
Junk mail
Phone books
Paperboard
Shredded paper (in a sealed paper bag

Coffee cups
Greasy pizza boxes
Paper plates or other food service ware items

jasujazumdinski
Plastic

Bottles, jugs, jars, and tubs (3 gallons or less).

Plastics such as:
Clamshell take-out containers
Toys
Buckets
Swimming pools
Keurig Cups
Coffee cups/lids
Plastic lids
Storage containers/trash cans
Garden hoses
Styrofoam

Glass

Amber, blue, red, green, and clear bottles and jugs (3 gallons or less).

Windows
Pyrex
Plate, drink or dinnerware

Cardboard

Must be flattened and placed into another box or bin for collection.

Greasy pizza boxes
Plastic packing material (Styrofoam™, bubble wrap, plastic wrap, packing pellets, etc.)

Metal

Empty aluminum, aerosol, &amp; steel cans. Leave labels on, discard lids or leave attached to can.

Loose metal lids and bottle caps
Metal cookware
Aluminum pans and foil

Press left and right keys to move between tabs. Press down to focus tab content.
Food Waste

Food Waste diversion is not mandatory at special events in The City of Pittsburgh; however, it is highly encouraged that event producers make it available for food vendors and attendee stations at festivals, fairs, and venues. For a list of vendors visit our Zero Waste Resources Page or Sustainable Event Guidelines(PDF, 659KB) .

Options
You can either:

Hire a private hauler to collect your recycling
Self-haul recyclables collected at your event to a City of Pittsburgh recycling drop-off or a recycling processor
Contact the City of Pittsburgh Recycling Division to determine logistics for the City to collect recycling at the end of your special event (based on availability)

jasujazumdinski
Pre-Event Planning

Pack-In/Pack-Out: Talk with your vendors and/or fellow event coordinators to understand who, what, where and how many materials will be generated. Establish ownership of these materials and eliminate waste whenever possible.
Develop and coordinate a plan for handling and recycling the materials once collected:
Find out what programs or equipment are already available on-site at your venue. Existing infrastructure may be sufficient for your needs.
Arrange for the storage and/or return of loaned equipment (City-owned equipment must be returned the following business day).
Once you have developed your plan, be sure to actively communicate expectations/availability of recycling and disposal options with your visitors, staff and/or volunteers.

Best Management Practices

Always pair your trash and recycling containers together to make disposal options both obvious and convenient for your attendees and to prevent confusion and/or contamination.
Use different colored bags for your trash and recycling to make sure separated materials are kept separate throughout the handling process.
Break down and flatten any and all corrugated cardboard boxes and place them all on a pallet or designated collection area.

Recycling Contamination &amp; Why It Matters?
One of the biggest challenges facing recycling right now is contamination by wishful recycling or “wish-cycling”. This happens when non-recyclable objects are placed in the recycling bin with the wish it will be recycled. Additionally, recycling contamination occurs when food residue, liquids, and unacceptable materials—such as bagged recyclables, plastic bags, plastic films, plastic packaging, electronics, hazardous waste, Styrofoam, batteries, sharps, food waste, greasy pizza boxes, and other durable goods like Tupperware, storage containers, or even plastic hangers—are placed in the recycling can. Contaminants not only degrade the materials, boosting costs, but they can potentially cause harm to the Material Recovery Facility (MRF) and city employees.

|     |     |
| --- | --- |
|  |
|  |  |
|  |  |
|  |  |
While these items are not accepted at special events, click here for waste disposal resources.
jasujazumdinski
Equipment/Event Support
The City of Pittsburgh’s Recycling Division is available to assist you in recycling at your event.
Assistance provided may include:

Determining logistics for recycling
Loaning collection equipment
Providing collection at end of your event

Event organizers must organize volunteers or provide staff for the collection, maintenance, and supervision of collection containers during your event.
Cost Recovery
In an effort to drive positive outcomes in special event recycling, the City operates under a model of cost recovery to recoup the costs of providing equipment directly to your event.
Please see the Public Works Rate Card(PDF, 164KB) to see our current pricing information. We are also willing to waive fees for events/organizers willing to self-service equipment from our office.
Available Equipment
Clearstream Recycling Stands

Color-coded, collapsible stands with selective opening lids and labels for collecting co-mingled recyclables. How-to-Use(PDF, 993KB)
Measurements: 40" x 25" x 3/4" (Folded) 40" x 25" x 18" (Opened)

Cube Carts (0.75 yd³)

May be used to store and secure up to 25 clearstream stands and lids or to transport materials on-site during the event (Minimum order of 15 clearstream containers to reserve cube carts)
Measurements: 49.25"l x 32.5"w x 38.75"h

Recycling Bags

Recycling bags may also be included upon request at no additional charge (Recommended minimum bag size 40-45 gal 40" x 46")

last updated: 09/09/2025
Back to top
Ready
jasujazumdinski