opens in new tab or window
City Cuts
Applications for the 2025 City Cuts Program closed on April 21, 2025.
City Cuts is the City of Pittsburgh’s lawn cutting program for our older neighbors, our veteran neighbors, and our neighbors with disabilities who do not have the means to cut their own grass.
In 2025, services will be provided twice a month (weather permitting) from early summer through early mid-fall.
Applicants must reside in the City of Pittsburgh limits, own the property or be responsible for the grass cutting of the property, lack social or financial means to cut their own lawns, and meet one or more of the follow qualifications:
Be 62 years or older
Be a veteran
Have a disability that prohibits you from cutting grass
Low income 150% below Federal Poverty Guideline
Service is limited and applications will be accepted on a first come, first served basis.
We are currently looking for Pittsburgh landscapers and contractors to participate in the City Cuts Program. The City offers competitive rates, with payments based on square footage per yard. If you or someone you know is interested, click to apply below!
APPLY
FAQs
Q - I am a person 62 or older requesting assistance with cutting the grass in my yard, located in the City of Pittsburgh, and I own my home. Do I qualify for City Cuts?
A - Yes! Please see ways to apply to the right.
Q - I am a person with a disability requesting assistance with cutting the grass in my yard. I live in the City of Pittsburgh and I own my home. Do I qualify for City Cuts?
A - Yes! Please see ways to apply to the right.
Q - I am a renter requesting assistance with cutting the grass in my yard. I live in the City of Pittsburgh. Do I qualify for City Cuts?
A - Yes! You can apply for the program if you can confirm that you are responsible for the grass cutting and you are 62 years of age or older, disabled, a veteran, and/or low income.
Q - I qualify! How do I sign up?
A - Click the ‘Request City Cuts Service’ option to explore what works best for you!
Q - I’d like to request assistance for a friend or family member. May I request service on their behalf?
A - Yes! Please be sure to note your contact information on the application.
Q - How will I be notified if I am accepted into the program?
A - You will be notified through the contact information you provide on the application. Most recipients will receive an email so be sure to check your email folders for frequent updates to the program!
Q - Will the contractor who cuts my lawn be insured?
A - Yes. The City hires contractors through a procurement process. All contractors are required to provide their own insurance.
Q - How often will my grass be cut?
A - Services will be provided twice a month (weather permitting) from mid-May through October.
Q - Are other services provided besides grass cutting?
A - No. The City Cuts program is limited to grass cutting, only.
Q - Can I schedule when I receive my service? Will I know in advance when my grass will be cut?
A - No, but please expect a cut every two weeks. Since grass cutting services are based on the cooperation of the weather, one rainy afternoon can shift the course of a week’s work.
jasujazumdinski
Request City Cuts Service
Call the Mayor’s 311 Response Line at 311 or (412) 255-2621
CLICK TO APPLY ONLINE
Contact City Cuts
City Cuts Program, Mayor's Office
414 Grant Street
Pittsburgh, PA 15219
Questions or Concerns? Dial 3-1-1 or use the 311 Online Request Form.
last updated: 07/15/2025
Back to top
Ready
jasujazumdinski