Skip to main content
opens in new tab or window
In This Section

Mayor  - Biography
2025 Governing Agenda
Mayor's Cabinet
Youth Civic Leadership Academy
Press Releases
Newsletters
Contact
Letters of Support Forms
Executive Orders
Office of Immigrant and Refugee Affairs    - Welcoming Communities Network
Immigrant &amp; Refugee Regional Data
OIRA Newsletter Signup

My Brother's Keeper
City-County Building
City of Pittsburgh Charity Challenges: FAQs
Key Focus Areas
Pittsburgh Innovation Team
City Controller
City Council
Boards, Authorities, Commissions
Legal Services
Jobs
Finance &amp; Budget
Contacts &amp; Information

Immigrant &amp; Refugee Regional Data

Commonly Spoken Languages By Zone (2022)(PDF, 370KB)
Overview of Immigrant Populations in Allegheny County(PDF, 354KB)

New Americans in Pittsburgh
The “ New Americans in Pittsburgh” report from the American Immigration Council, published on September 11, 2023, shows that immigrants in Pittsburgh contributed approximately $3.5 billion to the city’s gross domestic product (GDP), or 11.1 percent of its GDP.
The report, New Americans in Pittsburgh, was prepared in partnership with the City of Pittsburgh’s Office of Immigrant and Refugee Affairs, as part of the Council’s and Welcoming America’s Gateways for Growth Challenge, which includes tailored research on the local immigrant population.
The report also features profiles of community members: Khara Timsina, Brent Rondon, Ebtehal Badawi, and David Hajayandi.

jasujazumdinski
Key Findings:

Immigrants are helping the city meet its labor force demands. Immigrants made up 9.0 percent of the city’s population but accounted for 9.2 percent of its employed labor force.
Immigrants are helping Pittsburgh meet its rising labor needs in key industries. Immigrants represented 17.7 percent of STEM workers, 16.1 percent of education workers, and 13.1 percent of manufacturing workers.
Immigrants support the federal safety net. Immigrants in Pittsburgh contributed $93.9 million to Social Security and $26.8 million to Medicare in 2019.
Immigrants in Pittsburgh help create or preserve local manufacturing jobs. Immigrants strengthened the local job market by allowing companies to keep jobs on U.S. soil, helping preserve or create 1,200 local manufacturing jobs that would have otherwise been eliminated or moved elsewhere by 2019.

last updated: 09/09/2025
Back to top
Ready
jasujazumdinski