Skip to main content
opens in new tab or window
Councilman Wilson Honors Gus &amp; YiaYia’s with Street Naming
Published on July 24, 2025

Councilman Bobby Wilson celebrates iconic Pittsburgh staple Gus &amp; YiaYia’s with Honorary Street Naming Ceremony
Councilman Bobby Wilson celebrates iconic Pittsburgh staple Gus &amp; YiaYia’s with Honorary Street Naming Ceremony Pittsburgh, PA (July 24, 2025)—Councilman Bobby Wilson (District 1, along with Mayor Ed Gainey held an honorary street naming ceremony at the corner of West Ohio Street and Brighton Road, celebrating local Northside business, Gus &amp; YiaYia’s, unofficially renaming West Ohio Street as Gus &amp; YiaYia Way.
The ceremony, held near the one-year anniversary of the death of legendary owner Gus Kalaris, focused on the importance of the iconic orange cart to the Northside neighborhood, which has served generations of Pittsburghers since 1934
“For over 90 years, Gus and YiaYia’s has served shaved ice, peanuts, and popcorn to people from all over the city and the country. Coming here is a summertime tradition in Pittsburgh, where memories are made,” shared Councilman Wilson. “This cart is a symbol of family and community on the Northside and it’s an honor to recognize Gus &amp; YiaYia’s incredible legacy.”
Christina Avlon, Gus and Stella’s daughter, knows how much of an impact her family’s business has had within the community. “Our family is extremely honored that the street will be rededicated in their memory. They were both born and raised on the Northside and never left their roots.”
Mayor Ed Gainey, who joined Councilman Wilson at the ceremony, also shared his admiration for the longstanding impact of Gus and YiaYia’s.
“For many in our city, Gus &amp; Yiayia’s represents more than just a summertime treat — it embodies a unique part of what it means to be a Pittsburgher,” said Mayor Ed Gainey. “The iconic orange cart and Gus’s welcoming smile have been enduring features of Pittsburgh’s Northside for decades. Naming a street in their honor is a fitting tribute to their lasting impact on our every visitor and the cherished role they have played in history of our great city."
The honorary street sign will be installed at the intersection of West Ohio Street and Brighton Road.
Julianne Hluska
Chief of Staff
Councilman Bobby Wilson
Julianne.hluska@pittsburghpa.gov
412-676-5758
Tagged as:

City Council

Back to top
Ready
jasujazumdinski