Skip to main content
opens in new tab or window
In This Section

Mayor
City Controller
City Council  - Districts    - Bobby Wilson, District 1
Theresa Kail-Smith, District 2
Bob Charland, District 3
Anthony Coghill, District 4
Barb Warwick, District 5
R. Daniel Lavelle, District 6
Deb Gross, District 7
Erika Strassburger, District 8
Khari Mosley, District 9

Clerk's Office
Neighborhoods &amp; Wards
Legislative Information
Council Budget Office
City Council Contacts
Boards, Authorities, Commissions
Legal Services
Jobs
Finance &amp; Budget
Contacts &amp; Information

jasujazumdinski
2025 Ballot Questions for May 20, 2025 - Primary Election
Please see below for details on the upcoming ballot referenda for the May 20 Primary Election (Information Provided by the League of Women Voters of Greater Pittsburgh [https://www.lwvpgh.org/ballot])
SPECIAL ELECTION QUESTION #1 - Non-Discrimination in City Business and Foreign State Affiliations Amendment"Shall the Pittsburgh Home Rule Charter, Article One, Home Rule Powers - Definitions, be supplemented by adding a new Section, "105. Local Governance", by prohibiting the discrimination on the basis of race, religion, ancestry, sex, sexual orientation, age, gender identity or expression, disability, place of birth, national origin or association or affiliation with any nation or foreign state in conducting business of the City?"
Explanation What would the proposed ordinance do?
Special Election Question #1 would add language to the Home Rule Charter that prohibits the city from discriminating on the basis of "association or affiliation with any nation or foreign state" when doing business.   The measure passed by City Council lists some of the reasons behind the proposed amendment, including:

the need to engage with multinational companies in the modern global economy
the practical difficulty of investigating the activities of all foreign nations who do business with a vendor

Read the full text here:  City Ballot Question 1

Background
City Council passed the measure placing this question on the ballot unaniminously.
Pittsburgh City Council added this question to the ballot in response to  a citizens' initiative to place a separate question on the ballot. Read background on the citizen's initiative.
SPECIAL ELECTION QUESTION #2 - Public Ownership of Water and Sewer Systems"Shall the Pittsburgh Home Rule Charter be amended and supplemented by adding a new Article 11: RIGHT TO PUBLIC OWNERSHIP OF POTABLE WATER SYSTEMS, WASTEWATER SYSTEM, AND STORM SEWER SYSTEMS, which restricts the lease and/or sale of the City's water and sewer system to private entities?"
Explanation What would the proposed ordinance do?
The City of Pittsburgh currently owns and operates the drinking water, sewer, and stormwater utilities that serve Pittsburgh residents.  The city's Home Rule Charter, as written, allows the sale of these utilities to a private company or individual.   The proposed amendment would add language to the Home Rule Charter prohibiting the sale of these utilities to a private company or individual.
Read the full text here: City Ballot Question 2

Background

Pittsburgh Water (PW), formerly the Pittsburgh Water and Sewer Authority (PWSA), is a public utility that provides drinking water, and waste and stormwater management for the City of Pittsburgh.  When the utility was formed in 1995, PWSA agreed to rent the water management infrastructure from the City of Pittsburgh in a kind of "rent to own" arrangement. The 1995 contract allows PW to purchase the infrastructure from the city for $1 in the fall of 2025. Although PW remains a public utility, it would then be legal for PW to sell the infrastructure to a private company.

In 2016, Pennsylvania passed a law changing the way the value or sale price of a public utility is determined.  This law made it easier for private companies to purchase utilities and has led to an increased number of sales of water utilities in Pennsylvania to private companies.

PW is currently committed to remaining a public utility, and there is no company trying to buy Pittsburgh's water and sewer utilities at this time.  This amendment, if passed, would prevent a private company from buying these utilities in the future.

The measure to put this question on the ballot was passed unanimously by the Pittsburgh City Council and signed by the Mayor.  The board of Pittsburgh Water has also stated support for the amendment.

SPECIAL ELECTION QUESTION #3 - Prohibit the Use of the Charter Amendment Process to Add Duties Beyond the Scope of City Authority"Shall the Pittsburgh Home Rule Charter, Article One, Home Rule Powers - Definitions, be supplemented by adding a new section, "104. Amendments to Charter", by prohibiting the use of the Home Rule Charter Amendment process to add duties or obligations beyond the lawful scope of the city's authority?"
Explanation What would the proposed ordinance do?
The  Pittsburgh Home Rule Charter allows citizen initiatives to place proposed amendments on the ballot.  Special Election Question 3 proposes adding language to the Home Rule Charter prohibiting citizens' initiatives that add functions or obligations to the Charter that conflict with the US or PA Constitutions.
The measure passed by City Council lists some reasons behind the proposed amendment including:

The City of Pittsburgh is bound by the PA and US Constitutions in which duties are assigned to different levels of government.
An amendment that conflicts with the constitutions and the authority granted to the city would set up costly legal challenges.

Read the full text here:   City Ballot Question 3

Background
This is another measure passed in response to a proposed citizen's initiative. Read background on the citizen's initiative.
While the other two ballot measures received a unanimous vote in City Council, two council members opposed this measure because it restricts citizens' rights to use the ballot initiative process to place a question on the ballot.  The burden of deciding the legality of the proposed ballot measure could be shifted to the citizens in the process of forming the initiative.

Background on the Citizen's Initiative
2025 Citizen's Initiative
The City of Pittsburgh allows citizens to place referendum questions on the ballot using a citizen's initiative process.  This year, a group called "Not on Our Dime" ran a campaign to place a question on the 2025 Primary ballot. This citizens' initiative was withdrawn after failing to meet the requirements to get on the ballot. Special Election Questions 1 and 3 were added to the ballot by city council in response to this citizen's initiative.
The proposed amendment, Divert Funds from Governments Engaged in Genocide and Apartheid Charter Amendment,  would have prohibited the City of Pittsburgh from using public funds to conduct business with companies or individuals that do business with countries that engage in or facilitate genocide, apartheid or ethnic cleansing.  The proposed amendment specifically named Israel as one of these countries.
last updated: 05/09/2025
Back to top
Ready
jasujazumdinski