Skip to main content
opens in new tab or window
In This Section

Mayor
City Controller
City Council
Boards, Authorities, Commissions
Legal Services  - Department of Law
Office of Equal Protection
Commission on Human Relations
Ethics Hearing Board
Office of Municipal Investigations    - About OMI
Employee Rights
Function, Services &amp; Goals
Filing a Complaint
OMI Annual Reports
Contact OMI

City Ordinances
File a Claim with Law
Right to Know
Jobs
Finance &amp; Budget
Contacts &amp; Information

Function, Services &amp; Goals
OMI investigates complaints against City employees.  This does not include personnel from Parking Authority, Housing Authority, Pittsburgh Water &amp; Sewer Authority, or elected officials.  If the allegation is deemed to be a performance issue, as opposed to a complaint of misconduct, that will be forwarded to the appropriate Departmental Director or Bureau Chief to handle.  Also, some complaints against EMS personnel (specifically those involving patient care) will not be investigated by OMI but will be forwarded to EMS Command.
OMI acts solely as a fact-finder and does not make disciplinary decisions.  OMI determines whether policy has been violated and may identify problem areas where policy development and/or retraining may be necessary.  By remaining independent and removed from the disciplinary process, OMI ensures citizens and employees a fair, thorough investigation.
jasujazumdinski
OMI’s Core Services
Allegations of Misconduct:
Conducts investigations into complaints of misconduct allegedly committed by City of Pittsburgh employees.
Pre-employment Background Investigations:
Conducts pre-employment background investigations of Bureau of Police and Bureau of Fire candidates.
Residency Compliance:
Conducts investigations when questions arise concerning residency compliance.  The domicile requirement no longer applies to members of the Police and Firefighter Unions.
Goals &amp; Objectives
Goals
To promote community confidence in City government by doing thorough and fair investigations into alleged policy violations.  OMI’s findings can be used by management to determine if corrective or disciplinary actions is warranted.
Objectives

To provide consistent and thorough training to OMI staff to enhance investigative skills.
To prepare an annual report reflecting OMI’s findings to ensure public confidence and establish official accountability.
To implement a database system that promotes accuracy in records and serves as a mechanism to streamline and increase efficiency in case management.

last updated: 08/11/2025
Back to top
Ready
jasujazumdinski