Skip to main content
opens in new tab or window
In This Section

Parks
Pools
Events  - Summer Guide
Farmers Markets
Dollar Bank Cinema In The Park
Roving Art Cart
ARTWorks
Concerts    - Bach, Beethoven and Brunch
Jam At Grandview
Reservoir of Jazz
Stars at Riverview Jazz Series

Footraces
Holidays At City-County Building
Pistons in the Park Car Cruise
Pittsburgh Cultural Activities
Summer Soul Line Dancing
Park Facilities
Special Events
Film &amp; Event Management
Park Permits
About Parks

Concerts

Grab a blanket or lawn chair and head to a park to enjoy the City's free concert series!
Please Note: The City of Pittsburgh does not allow campaigning or signature gathering at any of its event locations.
Bach, Beethoven and Brunch
Sundays: June 22 - July 27, 2025 (no concert July 6)
10:30 a.m. - Noon, Mellon Park, Fifth Avenue and Shady Avenue, Point Breeze/Squirrel Hill
This longtime favorite series entertains music lovers on the lawn at Mellon Park. Satisfy your appetite for classical music by treating yourself to a special Sunday morning composed of Bach, Beethoven and Brunch. Don't miss the "Best Brunch" competition during intermission!
Series presented by Citizens and supported by WQED-FM 89.3
Bach, Beethoven and Brunch Schedule

jasujazumdinski
Jam at Grandview
Saturdays: August 2 - 30, 2025
7 - 8:30 p.m., Grandview Park Bandstand - Bailey Avenue, Mt. Washington
Enjoy live tunes, local brews, and Pittsburgh's best views! This brand new concert series features the sparkling downtown skyline as a backdrop on Saturday evenings in August. The Jam At Grandview - JAG! - performances combine live rock music with a rotating selection of local ales, ciders and wines to create immaculate vibes on Mt. Washington.
Series presented by Citizens and supported by Comcast and the Allegheny Regional Asset District (RAD)
Jam at Grandview Schedule

Reservoir of Jazz
Sundays: August 3 - 31, 2025 \| 5-7 PM
Highland Park \| Highland Avenue and Reservoir Drive
Relax on the lawn at Highland Park to sounds of jazz performed by Pittsburgh's finest musicians. Residents of the tri-state area look forward to late summer to witness this area's rich talent showcase at the ever-popular Reservoir of Jazz series. After the concerts, stay for Summer Soul Line Dancing.
Series presented by Citizens and supported by AARP Pennsylvania, WZUM Jazz Pittsburgh, Highland Park Community Council, and the Allegheny Regional Asset District (RAD)
Reservoir of Jazz Schedule

Stars at Riverview Series
Saturdays: June 7 - July 26, 2025 \| 7-8:30 PM
Riverview Park \| Riverview Ave, Observatory Hill
"Stars at Riverview" brings amazing music to Riverview Park on Saturday evenings. So bring a lawn chair or spread a blanket on Observatory Hill for an entire summer of incredible musical entertainment. After the concerts, stay for Dollar Bank Cinema in the Park.
Series presented by Citizens and supported by the Allegheny Regional Asset District (RAD)
Stars at Riverview Series Schedule

jasujazumdinski
Additional Information
For more information, follow CitiParks Office of Special Events (@pgheventsoffice) on X, Facebook or Instagram.
Please Note: Inclement weather may cause cancellations. For cancellation updates follow CitiParks Office of Special Events (@pgheventsoffice) on X, Facebook or Instagram.
2025 concert schedule subject to change
last updated: 05/08/2025
Back to top
Ready
jasujazumdinski