Search this site...
Search
Close
My Brother's Keeper
A community-driven program fostering empowerment and support for Black men and boys.
Follow
About the MBK Initiative
My Brother’s Keeper (MBK) Pittsburgh is an initiative that originated from the Obama administration to address persistent opportunity gaps faced by boys and young men of color to ensure all young people can reach their full potential.
The City of Pittsburgh has embraced former President Barack Obama's call to action for “My Brother's Keeper” with Mayor Ed Gainey implementing a cross-sector alliance with commitments to join the effort in creating a moreequitable and inclusive Pittsburgh.
The MBK advisory committee and staff members consistently review demographic, social, economic, and crime data, including numerous community and academic reports to strategize the work of MBK by structuring our community network to meet the needs of every Black man and boy.
MBK Pittsburgh Vision
MBK Pittsburgh seeks to create a region where Black men and boys are safe and free from violence, feel welcome, view themselves in a positive manner, and have equitable access to opportunities that enable them to thrive.
Goals
My Brother's Keeper seeks to address the unique challenges faced by individuals withinhigh- and extreme-need communities by providing a platform for mentorship, educational resources, employment opportunities, and community engagement through six key milestone goals:
All of our children enter school cognitively, physically, socially, and emotionally prepared
All of our children read at grade-level by third grade
All of our young people complete post-secondary education or training
All of our young people graduate from college
All of our youth who have graduated from college or a training program are employed
All of our young people are safe from violent crime, and those who need it, receive the second chance they deserve
Mayor Gainey and his administration are dedicated to improving current conditions within all six milestone goals through partnerships and collaboration to provide wrap-around services and resources for Black men and boys throughout the City of Pittsburgh. Together, we can foster a sense of belonging and support to empower individuals to overcome obstacles and achieve their full potential.
jasujazumdinski
Highlighting Black Men & Boys
MBK spotlights Black men and boys from the City of Pittsburgh for their community service, philanthropy, leadership, innovation, achievement, dedication to public service, civic engagement, environmental stewardship, cultural preservation, and acts of bravery or heroism.
Nominate someone to be highlighted!
We will add people as we accept nominees.
Join the conversation today
Create an account or log in to share your thoughts and ideas.
JoinLog In
Join the conversation today
Create an account or log in to share your thoughts and ideas.
JoinLog In
First name
Last name
Email address
Submit
Ignore this field. It is used to detect spammers. If you enter anything into this text box, your submission will be rejected.Ignore this field. It is used to detect spammers. If you enter anything into this text box, your submission will be rejected.Ignore this field. It is used to detect spammers. If you enter anything into this text box, your submission will be rejected.
Sign-up for our Newsletter
Click Here open in new window
Follow us on Social Media