opens in new tab or window
Small Business Resources
This page links to information from the City and our partners that can help connect small business to resources, funding, technical assistance and more. These pages address common questions small businesses face in launching or expanding in Pittsburgh.
Helpful Information
Startup Resources
This page offers a step-by-step overview of considerations for your new or expanding business.
OneStopPGH Tips for Small Businesses
Explore this page to get familiar with the development review process and learn where to bring any questions.
Business Licenses & Registrations
Your business might require a license and/or registration for operating in Pittsburgh. Learn more above or reach out to the Department of Permits, Licenses, and Inspections.
City Finance Registration for Businesses
Businesses and non-profit organizations must register to pay taxes with the Department of Finance.
City Programs
Office of Nighttime Economy
Looking to open or expand a food, beverage, or entertainment business? The Office of Nighttime Economy can answer questions, provide resources, and offer technical assistance.
Procurement
Interested in bidding on contracts with the City of Pittsburgh? Learn more about the procurement process and explore open bid opportunities here.
PGH Lab
Do you have a product or service that could innovate the City of Pittsburgh's operations? You may be eligible for a paid incubation opportunity with a City department. Check out PGH Lab to learn more and apply.
Vending and Outdoor Sales
The City is evaluating and working on changes to our vending program to support economic opportunity for entrepreneurs. Check out our Engage Pittsburgh page to learn more!
jasujazumdinski
Urban Redevelopment Authority and InvestPGH
InvestPGH Resources
Looking for more resources on business plans, technical assistance, and financing? Check out InvestPGH's Resources.
URA InvestPGH Intake Form
Not sure where to start, but interested in funding a resources? Get to know services available by filling out the URA InvestPGH Intake Form.
last updated: 09/30/2025
Back to top
Ready
jasujazumdinski