Skip to main content
opens in new tab or window
Become a City of Pittsburgh EMS
Open side Menu
Recruitment FAQ's
1. Do I have to submit my transcripts again if I submitted them in the past? Where do I submit my official transcript and/or DD-214?

Yes, official transcript and DD-214 forms (if applicable - copies acceptable) are required to be submitted during each application period. Each should be submitted to:

Attn: Nadia Schweizer/Tara Pendleton
Department of Human Resources &amp; Civil Service
Room 431 City-County Building
414 Grant Street
Pittsburgh, PA 15219
2. Does the city offer any education waivers?
Yes! The following waivers are available:

Sixty (60) semester credit hours may be waived for applicants with at least four (4) years of full active military duty with an Honorable Discharge or have completed Officer Candidate School and have no term of obligation.
Thirty (30) semester credit hours may be waived for applicants with at least two (2) years of full active military duty with an Honorable Discharge or have completed Officer Candidate School and have no term of obligation.

OR
-  Sixty (60) semester credit hours may be waived for applicants who have successfully completed Act 120 training as certified by the Municipal Police Officers' Education and Training Commission of Pennsylvania or by a certifying agency from another state with at least two (2) years of full-time, paid policing experience. (Full-time is defined as 32 hours or more per week. Less than full-time experience will be calculated on a pro-rated basis.)
-  Forty-five (45) semester credit hours may be waived for applicants who have successfully completed Act 120 training as certified by the Municipal Police Officers' Education and Training Commission of Pennsylvania or by a certifying agency from another state with less than two (2) years of full-time, paid policing experience. (Full-time is defined as 32 hours or more per week. Less than full-time experience will be calculated on a pro-rated basis.)
3. I do not currently have any credits but would still like the opportunity to apply. Can I request a civil service waiver now?

No. You are required to possess 30 semester credits by your written exam date. The one year civil service waiver is an option if your rank is reached on the eligibility list and you do not yet possess the 60 semester credits required to be processed for the academy. At that point, you may submit a written request for an education waiver to the Civil Service Commission.

4. Does the City of Pittsburgh accept lateral transfers or provide additional compensation for veteran officers?

No. The city does not accept lateral transfers or provide additional compensation for veteran officers. Those hired into the academy who are veteran officers, attend an expedited academy of approximately seven weeks in-classroom training rather than the 32 weeks in-classroom training which is required of those without prior police officer training/certification.

5. Does the City offer alternate testing dates to those who are unable to test on the scheduled dates due to military obligations?

Yes. If you are unable to attend the scheduled exam dates, you can send an email (with your deployment orders attached) addressed to the Civil Service Commissioners to paula.kellerman@pittsburghpa.gov requesting that you be permitted to take the exam on an alternate date.

6. I completed both the written and oral exams during the previous recruiting period. Are my test scores from those pervious exams still relevant, or am I required to apply and test again?

You are required to apply and test again as scores from previous lists are only valid during the duration of the specific list.

NOTE: You are required to apply and test again as scores from previous lists are only valid during the duration of the specific list.
If you have any further questions that are not found here, please contact joinpghpolice and we will be happy to answer any questions that you have.
last updated: 04/22/2025
Back to top
Ready
jasujazumdinski