Skip to main content
opens in new tab or window
In This Section

Mayor
City Controller
City Council
Boards, Authorities, Commissions  - Member Rosters
Agendas &amp; Minutes
List of Boards, Authorities, Commissions    - Allegheny County Sanitary Authority (ALCOSAN)
Allegheny Regional Asset District (ARAD)
Board of Appeals
Bridge Asset Management Program
City-County Task Force on Disabilities
Civil Service Commission
Clean Pittsburgh Commission
Commission on Human Relations
Comprehensive Municipal Pension Trust Fund
Ethics Hearing Board
Equipment Leasing Authority
Equal Opportunity Review Commission (EORC)
Gender Equity Commission
HIV Commission
Housing Authority, City of Pittsburgh
Independent Citizen Police Review Board
Infrastructure Asset Reporting and Investment
LGBTQIA+ Commission
Municipal Pension Fund
Other Post Employment Benefits (OPEB) Trust Fund
Pittsburgh Land Bank
Records Management Advisory Commission
Shade Tree Commission
Southwestern Pennsylvania Commission
Sports and Exhibition Authority
Stadium Authority
Urban Redevelopment Authority

Legal Services
Jobs
Finance &amp; Budget
Contacts &amp; Information

Sports and Exhibition Authority
The SEA is the successor to the Public Auditorium Authority of Pittsburgh and Allegheny County. The name was changed in November 1999 as the SEA began working with the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, the City of Pittsburgh, and Allegheny County to implement the Regional Destination Financing Plan (RDFP). The RDFP supported the construction of PNC Park, Heinz Field, and the expansion of the David L. Lawrence Convention Center, as well as the infrastructure improvements associated with these projects.
SEA-owned facilities include PPG Paints Arena, PNC Park, Acrisure Stadium, the David L. Lawrence Convention Center, North Shore Riverfront Park, and the North Shore Parking Garage. The SEA consists of seven members, three of whom are appointed by the City and three by the County. The seventh member is appointed by the City and County jointly.
jasujazumdinski
Governing Documents

PA Sports and Exhibition Authority Act (16 P.S. Section 5501A et seq.)
By-laws of the SEA

Members
Seven members

3 appointed by the Mayor of Pittsburgh
3 appointed by County Chief Executive
1 joint Mayor/County Exec appointment
Must be a resident of Allegheny County.

Current Members
Sen. Wayne Fontana (County)
Chairman
Hon. Anthony Coghill (City)
Treasurer
Michael Dunleavy (City/County)
Vice-Chairman
Hon. Nicholas Futules (County)
Michael Quatrini (City)
Reverend Glenn Grayson (City)
Sala Udin (County)
Meetings

Meeting Schedule
Meetings/Minutes

Contact Us
Desmond Bentley
393-0200
Pittsburgh SEA Website
Back to top
Ready
jasujazumdinski