opens in new tab or window
In This Section
Parks
Pools
Events
Park Facilities  - Schenley Skating Rink
Recreation Centers
The Neill Log House
Special Events
Film & Event Management
Park Permits
About Parks
The Neill Log House
“Pittsburgh’s oldest Log House”
About the Neill Log House
The Neill Log House, located in Schenley Park, is the City of Pittsburgh’s oldest existing log residence. Built in 1795, it is one of only five residential structures in Pittsburgh remaining from the 18th century.
The log house was built by Robert Neill, a Revolutionary War veteran who made his living as a wagoner, after he laid claim to the original 262-acre tract of land that lies within Schenley Park. This signified a new era in Pittsburgh’s history, when settlers began building permanent residences instead of temporary log cabins. The log house’s detailed features, such as hewed logs, a wooden floor, and the addition of a loft, point to an abundance of time and attention when constructing the home.
Additionally, the Neill Log House is featured as a stop on the national Lewis & Clark Trail Experience, as research suggests that Meriwether Lewis stopped to water his horse at a spring now replaced by the Catahecassa Fountain, in 1803.
Address: 5229 East Circuit Road, Pittsburgh, PA 15217
jasujazumdinski
Friends of Neill Log House
In October 2021, the Squirrel Hill Historical Society and the Squirrel Hill Urban Coalition joined together to form Friends of Neill Log House, Inc. with the mission to restore and reopen the house for educational purposes.
After a historically accurate restoration, and the installation of steps, fencing, railings, and more, the grand opening took place in November 2024.
In partnership with Friends of Neill Log House, the Pittsburgh Park Rangers have since begun hosting tours, open hours, and recreational events to help share Schenley Park’s rich history with guests
Calendar of Events & Open Office Hours
Public visitation hours are held seasonally from May to September. Upcoming special events at the Neill Log House are listed down below.
Turner Cemetery History Walk(PDF, 288KB)
Neill Log House Harvest Festival(PDF, 10MB)
Booking a Private/Group Tour
Public visitation hours are held seasonally, as listed in the monthly calendar of events.
Private group tours of the Neill Log House can be scheduled on the online form available here or by reaching out to neillloghouse@pittsburghpa.gov with any inquiries. If possible, please include multiple available dates under the “Preferred Date/Time of Tour” section.
Please note that the Neill Log House is NOT handicap accessible. Participants must be comfortable walking stairs to the entrance.
Bathroom accessibility: TBA
Parking: Street parking will be available along E Circuit Rd.
Please note that food and drink are not allowed in the Neill Log House. Picnic seating and waste disposal are available down the street on E. Circuit Road, adjacent to the log house.
jasujazumdinski
Find out More
Visit FONLH webpage
Check us out on the Lewis & Clark Website
last updated: 09/30/2025
Back to top
Ready
jasujazumdinski