Skip to main content
opens in new tab or window
In This Section

Parks
Pools
Events
Park Facilities
Special Events
Film &amp; Event Management
Park Permits  - Reserve Park Shelter    - Frequently Asked Questions
Picnic Shelter Regulations &amp; Guidelines

Sports Field Permit
About Parks

Picnic Shelter Regulations &amp; Guidelines

The hours stipulated on the permit include set up and clean up time; shelters will not be opened in advance of the permitted time. Activities may be held only in the area designated by the permit. Premises must be vacated by 9 P.M.
Permit must be clearly displayed inside a glass covered box provided in front of, or on the shelter.
There shall be no defacing of the building as noted in the Pittsburgh City Code (PCC) 473.01a; signs and banners must be affixed so it causes no damage (ie: no nails, push pins or tape that will remove paint); signs or banners, used as directional and/or informational throughout the park, must be removed before the permit expires.
There shall be no defacing of trees and/or shrubs (PCC 473.01b)
Refuse generated by the permit holder must be collected and properly disposed of in the receptacles provided (PCC 473.02b). If there are no receptacles permit holder responsible for removing rubbish and debris from site. Plastic, paper and cardboard must be recycled if recycling receptacles are provided. No glass allowed (PCC 473.08); violators subject to fines between $50.00 and $500.00.
Restroom must be left clean and orderly (PCC 473.01a).
Cooking is permitted only in designated areas; permit holders, using the outdoor grills provided at the shelter must use their own charcoal, clean out the grill and dispose of the used charcoal properly and safely (PCC 473.04c). Please ensure fire is completely extinguished before leaving the premises.
Vending is prohibited without a permit (PCC 477.01c).
Noise levels, including sound equipment, must conform to PCC 601.04; picnics with a band/DJ must hire a police officer for security purposes.
Capacity permitted within the shelter must conform to the provisions of Article 800 of the Pittsburgh Building Code.
Vehicles are to park in approved parking locations only, (parking lots, off street, etc.). Vehicles are not to park on the grass and will be ticketed and towed (PCC 473.01a). Service roads are for authorized government vehicles only, not the permit holder and/or guests.
Shelters will not be left open; if the permit holder fails to make contact with the park staff before the staff leaves for the day the permit will be considered cancelled and staff will not be called back to open the shelter.
This permit entitles the permit holder to use the shelter and the grounds identified in the permit; if additional activities are planned (ie: petting zoo, pony ride, inflatable bounce house, tent, etc.) the permit holder must provide a Certificate of Liability Insurance naming the City of Pittsburgh as an additional insured (PCC 473.01a).
The Department of Public Works (DPW) reserves the right to extend use priority to programs that are sponsored and scheduled by other City Departments; also in the event of an emergency the Director or his/her designee reserves the right of decision.
No permit fee shall be returned unless DPW receives a written and dated request of cancellation at least thirty (30) days prior to the date of the permit - weather is not considered a valid reason for cancellations; a processing fee of ten $10.00 dollars will be retained. The body of notice email should include permit holder account, name payment is under, permit number, and location/reservation date. By placing a reservation under 30 days away, the permit holder understands their reservation will not be refunded or modified in any manner.
DPW personnel will determine if the above requirements have been satisfactorily fulfilled.
Permits are non-transferable.
No fees may be charged for admission to any part of the premises.

For more information, please email the Permits Office at dpwfields&amp;parkshelters@pittsburghpa.gov or visit registerparks.pittsburghpa.gov
last updated: 04/17/2025
Back to top
Ready
jasujazumdinski