opens in new tab or window
In This Section
City Planning  - About City Planning
City Planning Meeting Calendar
City Planning Public Notices
Commissions and Boards
Historic Preservation Program
Public Art Program
Neighborhood Planning
Master & Neighborhood Plans    - Sheraden Park Master Plan
South Side Park Master Plan
Ecoinnovation District
Greater Hazelwood Neighborhood Plan
Greater Hill District Master Plan
Homewood Community Plan
Manchester Chateau Neighborhood Plan
The Oakland Plan
City Planning Projects
City Planning Programs
Development Review Process Guides
Mobility and Infrastructure
Permits, Licenses, and Inspections
Digital Equity In Pittsburgh
Small Business Resources
Public Works
Zoning
Geographic Information Systems, Mapping & Open Data
Procurement
PGH Lab
Sustainability
The Oakland Plan
A 10-year plan with a shared vision for Oakland's future and the projects and programs necessary to make that vision a reality.
The Oakland Plan was adopted as City policy by Planning Commission in June 2022. The Plan guides the future of public and private investments in the area and recommends new land-use regulations, transportation and infrastructure improvements as well as public programs and community services. The plan area generally includes the neighborhoods of North Oakland, Central Oakland, South Oakland, and West Oakland.
Engage Now
Planning Process
jasujazumdinski
Stage 1
Fall 2019 - Spring 2020
Organize
Prepare for the planning process.
Stage 2
Summer 2020 - Fall 2020
Visualize
Identify issues & opportunities, set a vision & goals.
Stage 3
Winter 2021 - Summer 2021
Strategize
Develop project & programs.
Stage 4
Fall 2021 - Spring 2022
Formalize
Assemble, review, & adopt the plan.
Stage 5
Next 10 years
Realize
Implement the plan's actions.
Status
Implementation of the Plan is underway! Visit the Plan's EngagePGH page to learn about the current status of each project and program.
The Neighborhood
Pittsburgh’s Oakland is composed of four city-designated neighborhoods: West Oakland, North Oakland, Central Oakland, and South Oakland. The district these four neighborhoods form possesses an unparalleled combination of academic, medical, and cultural institutions surrounded by a vibrant residential community. Oakland’s academic institutions are also major employers and generators of economic activity throughout Western Pennsylvania, including the University of Pittsburgh, Carnegie Mellon University, the University of Pittsburgh Medical Center, and Carlow University. Oakland has an extraordinary complement of cultural institutions, including the Carnegie Museum of Art, Carnegie Museum of Natural History, Carnegie Hall, the main branch of the Carnegie Library, and the nearby Phipps Conservatory. Activity extends to the riverfront portions of Oakland, where the Pittsburgh Technology Center continues to grow and add office and R&D buildings as well as parking, hospitality, and other uses. Finally, The Port Authority of Allegheny County, in partnership with the City of Pittsburgh, is currently in the design phase of a Bus Rapid Transit system that will better connect Downtown and Oakland with the East End and nearby neighborhoods. The project will introduce designated bus-only lanes that will reduce travel times and bring other streetscape improvements, including physically separated bike lanes, street trees, and stormwater infrastructure to the Fifth and Forbes Avenue corridor.
jasujazumdinski
Project Staff and Partners
Staff from the Department of City Planning managed the overall planning process and support planning partners who led discussions by topic as shown below.
Community: Department of City Planning, Office of Equity
Development: Department of City Planning, Urban Redevelopment Authority
Mobility: Department of Mobility and Infrastructure, Port Authority of Allegheny County
Infrastructure: Green Building Alliance, Department of City Planning Division of Sustainability and Resilience
Key Contacts
Plan Implementation
Christian Umbach, Department of City Planning
(412) 518-8395
christian.umbach@pittsburghpa.gov
Get Involved
Steering Committee
Action Teams
Resources
last updated: 04/23/2025
Back to top
Ready
jasujazumdinski