Skip to main content
opens in new tab or window
Become a City of Pittsburgh Police Officer
Open side Menu

Why Serve
Pittsburgh
About PBP
Mentors
Salary &amp; Benefits
Hiring Process
Specialty Units
FAQs

In This Section

Why Serve
Pittsburgh
About PBP
Mentors
Salary &amp; Benefits
Hiring Process
Specialty Units
FAQs

Salary &amp; Benefits
Salary

$22.95 per hour while in Training Academy for 2025
$33.15 Police Officer First Year Salary for 2025
Premium Pay
Overtime

Pension

Eligible Employees are enrolled in the City of Pittsburgh Police Plan.

457/ Deferred Compensation

The City of Pittsburgh offers eligible employees the opportunity to defer compensation on a pre-tax basis into a governmental 457 Plan.

Benefits
Credit Union Membership

Police Federal Credit Union www.pittsburghpolicefcu.com

Life &amp; Accidental Death and Dismemberment Insurance (AD&amp;D)

The City of Pittsburgh provides eligible employees with basic and life and AD&amp;D insurance. Options for supplemental life are available.

Health Insurance

The City of Pittsburgh is dedicated to providing eligible employees and their families with affordable quality benefit options designed to meet the needs of today’s families. Medical benefits begin the first of the month following the date of hire unless otherwise stated in a union member’s collective bargaining agreement.

Other Benefits

Dental and Vision Coverage: Eligible employees may participate in the City of Pittsburgh’s dental program. If elected at time of hire, coverage will begin 90 days following the date of hire unless otherwise stated in a union member’s collective bargaining agreement. CityFit Wellness At Work:The CityFit Wellness at work program offers employees and their families opportunities to better understand their health through biometric screenings, lunch and learns, annual wellness fairs, and a number of program offerings throughout the year.
Flexible Spending Account (FSA):Employees of the City of Pittsburgh that have health care benefits are eligible to enroll in the City’s Flexible Spending Account Program. This annual program allows an employee to set aside funds for medical expenses on a pre-tax basis.
Voluntary Benefits:The City of Pittsburgh offers a variety of voluntary benefits including AFLAC, Legal Services, Identity Theft Shield, and Pet Insurance.

457/ Deferred Compensation

The City of Pittsburgh offers eligible employees the opportunity to defer compensation on a pre-tax basis into a governmental 457 Plan.

LifeSolutions (an EAP)

A workplace benefit offering solutions to balance life, work, and wellness.

Tuition Reimbursement

Tuition reimbursement is offered to eligible employees of the City of Pittsburgh. In addition, the City partners with numerous area universities to provide special tuition discounts. Tuition Discounts

Short Term Disability (STD)/Long Term Disability (LTD)

Eligible employees will be enrolled in the City of Pittsburgh’s STD/LTD Plan and be given an option to buy-up to an enhanced plan.

More Benefits:

Vacation, Holidays, Military Leave, Other Leaves, Uniform Allowance, Longevity.

last updated: 04/22/2025
Back to top
Ready
jasujazumdinski