Skip to main content
opens in new tab or window
In This Section

Trash &amp; Recycling  - Collection Schedule and Newsletter
Curbside Pick Up
Commercial Recycling
Special Event Recycling
Drop-Off Info &amp; Additional Resources
Anti-Litter and Illegal Dumping    - Plastic Bag Ban &amp; Paper Bag Fee
Frequently Asked Questions
Volunteer Applications
Additional Organization Resources
Litter Index
Permission for Graffiti Removal PDF
Permission for Graffiti Removal Web Form

311
A - Z: Frequently Visited
ADA &amp; Disability Rights
Snow Removal
Road Maintenance
Food Programs
Pets &amp; Animals
Community Programming
Immigrant and Refugee Affairs
Tree Resources

Plastic Bag Ban &amp; Paper Bag Fee

Why ban plastic bags and mandate a fee for paper bags?
The City of Pittsburgh is committed fostering a clean and sustainable community by reducing waste and litter. In April 2022, Pittsburgh City Council unanimously passed an ordinance banning plastic bags and requiring at least 10 ¢ be charged for paper bags.
Plastic bags are problematic through their lifecycle - they are made from non-renewable resources, often used just once, are hard to recycle, and do not biodegrade. They litter sidewalks and parks, clog storm drains and recycling machinery, and contaminate soil and water with microplastics. Paper bags, while recyclable, are still resource-intensive to produce and studies in other cities show that charging a fee decreases their use.
This webpage is intended to provide information to the public and help businesses ensure they are compliant with the ordinance. We encourage you to read it thoroughly, utilize the available resources, and reach out if you need assistance. A PDF of frequently asked questions can be found here: Plastic Bag Ordinance FAQ(PDF, 286KB) . Alternatively, See FAQs at the bottom of the page.

jasujazumdinski

Who does the ordinance apply to?
The plastic bag ban and paper bag fee apply to all businesses that meet the following criteria:

The business is located within Pittsburgh city limits.
Use the Pittsburgh Map search bar to look up your business address. If it falls within a colored section of the map, you are operating within city limits.
The business sells or distributes food and/or other products to the public.
This includes, but is not limited to: supermarkets, convenience stores, gas stations, department stores, dollar stores, clothing stores, restaurants, food trucks, farmers’ markets, festivals, cafeterias, etc.

What do businesses need to know and do?
What to Do What to Know
What to Do
Take the following actions to ensure your business is compliant with the ordinance and customers are aware of the changes:

Review this webpage to learn more about the ordinance (see "What to Know" tab) and find resources to help your business come into compliance.
Discontinue the distribution of plastic carryout bags. Consider offering paper or reusable bags instead.
Update points-of-sale (in-store, online, mobile, phone, third-party delivery apps) systems to charge 10¢ for paper bags.
Educate your staff and cashiers on the plastic bag ban &amp; paper bag fee. Remind employees to ask customers if they would like a bag, before providing one.
Inform customers about the plastic bag ban and paper bag fee by posting signs at the entrance and at all registers or points-of-sale.
Remind customers that they can avoid bag fees and reduce waste by bringing their own bags or by requesting no bag.
Charge customers at least 10¢ for each paper bag you provide to them in-store, at pick-up, or through delivery.
Ensure receipts include the charges for paper bags listed as a separate line item, using “carry-out bag charge” or a similar wording that indicates the fee is for bags.

jasujazumdinski
What to Know
Plastic carryout bags cannot be given to customers.

Applies in-store, at pick-up, for take-out, and delivery.
Includes plastic bags made from corn or other plant sources and labeled biodegradable or compostable.

A fee of at least 10¢ must be charged for every paper bag provided to customers, through all points-of-sale.

Bag fees must be separately itemized on receipts.
Businesses keep all bag fees.
Paper bags may be provided for free to customers paying with WIC, SNAP, or another type of EBT card.

Mandatory paper bag fees serve three main purposes:

To help businesses offset the cost of paper bags.
To encourage customers to bring their own bag or opt not to use one, when possible.
To create consistency for businesses and customers.
Standardizes customer expectations and practices.
Prevents a competitive dis/advantage for any business based on their in/ability to absorb the cost of bags.

The plastic bag ban and paper bag fee does not apply to any type of bag used solely to contain:

Unwrapped prepared food or bakery goods.
Uncooked meats or fish.
Flowers, potted plants, dry cleaning, or medication.
Loose bulk items - including fruit, vegetables, grains, nuts, candy, or similar non-prepackaged items.

Take steps to ensure your business is in compliance.

Upon discovery of a business violating the ordinance, an inspector will issue a warning. They will return 4-6 weeks later to check if violations have been corrected.
If violations are not corrected by the second inspection, a citation will be filed. Citations have the following structure for fines:
$100 for the 2nd violation.
$250 for the 3rd violation and all violations that follow.
Each day out of compliance is considered a new violation.

Press left and right keys to move between tabs. Press down to focus tab content.
jasujazumdinski
What resources are available?
Guides Signs Other
Guides
Plastic Bag Ordinance Compliance Guide(PDF, 240KB)

This guide is intended to assist business owners and managers as they implement the necessary changes to bring their business into compliance. It includes information about the ordinance, steps to take to ensure compliance and inform customers of the changes, and answers to FAQs.

Compliant Bag Supplier Guide(PDF, 119KB)

This list can be used to find vendors who sell reusable bags and/or paper bags that meet the requirement of containing a minimum of 40% post-consumer recycled content and no old growth fiber.
This list is not an endorsement of any product or vendor and is not a complete list of where bags can be purchased.
If you are a vendor with bags that meet these requirements and wish to be included on this list, please reach out to bagban@pittsburghpa.gov.

Signs
Counter Signs: Businesses are encouraged to post these signs at their check-out counters to inform customers of the changes.

Plastic Bag Ban &amp; Paper Bag Fee Sign(PDF, 52KB)
For businesses that switch from plastic bags to paper bags available for a small fee.
Paper Bag Fee Sign(PDF, 50KB)
For businesses already using paper bags, but not yet charging small fee for them.
Customized Paper Bag Fee Sign(PDF, 56KB)
For businesses increasing the paper bag fee to cover the full of the bags they use.
This is a sample. Request a copy with you desired fee by emailing: bagban@pittsburghpa.gov.

jasujazumdinski
Other
Inspection Report(PDF, 174KB)

This document can be used to understand what inspectors will be looking for when they inspect your business for compliance with the ordinance.

Ordinance Text - Chapter 610: Prohibition on Use of Certain Bags and Checkout Bag Charge

Review the specific language included in the ordinance to ensure your business is compliant with every requirement If you need help interpreting a section and can't find it explained on this webpage, please reach out to bagban@pittsburghpa.gov for assistance.

Press left and right keys to move between tabs. Press down to focus tab content.
Violations and Enforcement
If a business is found to be out of compliance with any component of the ordinance, inspectors' initial actions will be to prioritize outreach, education, and support to ensure the business has the necessary information and resources to help them come into compliance. Following these initial actions, increasing levels of enforcement may be applied to address non-compliant businesses.

If during the 1st inspection, an establishment is found in violation of the ordinance, an inspector will issue a warning, provide guidance, and offer assistance.
Inspectors will return after 4-6 weeks to check whether all identified violations have been corrected.
If all violations are not corrected by the time of the second inspection and businesses continue to operate out of compliance, inspectors will file a citation. The following fines can be applied for violations:
$100 for the 2nd violation.
$250 for the 3rd violation and all violations that follow.
Each day out of compliance is considered a new violation.

jasujazumdinski
Need assistance? Contact us.
DPW - Environmental Services
bagban@pittsburghpa.gov
(412) 514-4261
Schedule a Meeting
Common Retailer Questions, Answered
What kinds of bags can my business provide?(show below)
Reusable bags and compliant paper bags can be provided.

Paper bags are compliant if they contain no old-growth fiber and are made from at least 40% post-consumer recycled content. A 10¢ fee must be charged for each bag.

What are the signage requirements?(show below)
There are no longer any requirements to post signage about the ordinance, but businesses are encouraged to post signs at the entrance and all points-of-sale informing customers that plastic bags can no longer be provided and a 10¢ fee will be charged for each paper bag.
Are retailers required to provide bags?(show below)
No, retailers are not required to provide any bags and may choose to exclusively rely on customers to bring their own bags or make repurposed cardboard boxes, etc. available for customers to use.
Are bags used to carry out leftovers subject to the ordinance?(show below)
Yes, bags given to customers at restaurants for the purpose of carrying out packaged leftovers are subject to the policy.
Are small carryout bags subject to the ordinance?(show below)
Yes, any bag provided to customers that is not included on the exempt bags list is subject to the policy, regardless of size.
Are bags made from plant products and labeled “compostable” allowed?(show below)
No, there is no exception for plastic bags labeled “compostable,” “biodegradable” or "made from plants".
Do I have to get rid of existing stock of plastic bags?(show below)
Businesses with leftover plastic bags should consider donating their remaining stock to organizations or businesses outside of Pittsburgh city limits, including food banks, nonprofit reuse stores, etc. Chain stores with other locations outside of Pittsburgh city limits can give their bag inventory to those stores.
What if I have additional questions?(show below)
First, review the Retailer Compliance Guide for more information and a more exhaustive list of FAQs.
If you still have questions, contact us at: bagban@pittsburghpa.gov \| (412) 514-4261

jasujazumdinski

Common Customer Questions, Answered
Where does the paper bag fee go?(show below)
Businesses keep the fee in order to help them recoup any additional costs associated with providing paper bags to customers. Some businesses, like those that have already factored in the cost of paper bags, may decide to donate the required 10¢ fee to a local non-profit.
How can customers avoid the fee?(show below)
You can avoid paying the paper bag fee by bringing your own bag to the store or restaurant, or opting not to receive a bag.
Is it safe to use reusable bags?(show below)
Reusable bags can be used safely with basic cleaning practices. You should wash your reusable bags to keep them clean and prevent bacteria from accumulating.
How can I report a non-compliant business?(show below)
Customers can contact the City of Pittsburgh 311 Response Center to report a business that is out of compliance.

File an online request form under the "Plastic Bag Ban Compliance" request type.

Reporting multiple businesses? Please complete a separate form for each one.

Please include the address of the business and a brief description of your observations.
If you prefer to file a request by phone, call 311 or 412-255-2621.

last updated: 05/30/2025
Back to top
Ready
jasujazumdinski