Skip to main content
opens in new tab or window
In This Section

City Planning
Mobility and Infrastructure
Permits, Licenses, and Inspections  - Applications &amp; Forms
OneStopPGH
Permits    - About PLI
Residential Permits
Commercial Permits
Permit Process
Work Not Requiring a Permit

Licenses
Bulletins
Community Resources
Code Enforcement
Condemned Buildings
PLI Fees
Building Codes
Appeals
PLI Contacts
Announcements
Registrations
Digital Equity In Pittsburgh
Small Business Resources
Public Works
Zoning
Geographic Information Systems, Mapping &amp; Open Data
Procurement
PGH Lab
Sustainability

About PLI
Our mission is to provide a better quality of living to the residents of the City of Pittsburgh by increasing safety in the built environment.
Organizational Structure
PLI is organized into 3 distinct divisions: Construction, Operations, and Administrative and Licensing.
The Construction Division is responsible for reviewing and inspecting building permits. Staff duties include reviewing plans and permit applications, inspecting issued building permits and responding to constituent complaints related to issued permits or building without a permit.
The Operations Division is responsible for all property maintenance of existing buildings. Staff duties include responding to constituent requests related to property maintenance and structural deficiencies, condemnations, City-funded demolitions, and license-related inspections.
The Administration and Licensing Division is responsible for the everyday functions of the office. Staff duties include operating the applications counter, answering general inquiries, managing records, finance and accounting, community engagement, social media, technology improvements and administering business licenses.
jasujazumdinski
Additional Information
Please explore our site to experience all of our changes first hand including monthly newsletters and community forums, publicly available data, tracking building permits and code violations online, permit application checklists and bulletins, OneStopPGH, and so much more!
If you have any questions, please call 412-255-2175 or email us at pliapptech@pittsburghpa.gov. PLI staff are also available via live chat on the OneStopPGH website from 9:00AM-3:00PM, Monday through Friday. For the most up-to-date information about PLI, check out our Community Resources page.
last updated: 05/30/2025
Back to top
Ready
jasujazumdinski