Skip to main content
opens in new tab or window
In This Section

Mayor
City Controller
City Council  - Districts
Clerk's Office    - What is a City Clerk?
Kimberly Clark-Baskin, CMC, City Clerk
City Clerk Functions
City Ordinances
Council Meeting Schedule
Rules of Council
Legislative Information Center
Records Management Division
Inter-municipal Liquor License Application
Home Rule Charter
Procedures
Business Processes
City Clerk Contacts
Clerk News
Clerk's Press Releases

Neighborhoods &amp; Wards
Legislative Information
Council Budget Office
City Council Contacts
Boards, Authorities, Commissions
Legal Services
Jobs
Finance &amp; Budget
Contacts &amp; Information

Video Streaming
In the LIC, video is available two ways - Live Video Streaming, and Archived Video.
Live Video Streaming
While Council meetings are in progress, links become active on the Live Video Streaming page. Visit the links, and a new window will open containing the video player (see player configuration info below), and also the relevant agenda document (in PDF format).
Video Streaming page
Archived Video
After meetings take place, the City Clerk's office works hard to edit and archive Meeting Video. When video clips has been archived, you will find links on Legislative Detail pages. Links to archived video clips are to be found everywhere legislative files are listed.
jasujazumdinski
Video Player Configuration
Videos are streamed using Windows Media Player (WMP). For many users, WMP should be configured correctly - however, we intend to provide as many configuration resources as possible here.

Granicus, the third party that provides the video streaming, has assembled a help page.
Microsoft has a WMP download page where the latest version(s) may be obtained. Note - if you are hearing the audio track but not seeing the video stream, it's very likely that you need to update WMP at the site linked to above. After updating, you need to start WMP before the update will be in effect.
Flip4Mac is a free program that allows Mac users to easily view WMP files. The program adds WMP compatibility to QuickTime - the latter being standard install for Mac. A resource page has been established.
Fans of the excellent and free Firefox web browser can easily download and configure a free plugin for WMP playback (scroll to the page bottom and look for Windows Media Player).

Video Resources

Granicus Help Page
Microsoft WMP Download Page
Flip4Mac component page
Firefox web browser
Firefox WMP Plugin

Back to top
Ready
jasujazumdinski