opens in new tab or window
Permits, Licenses, and Inspections
Newly launched! OneStopPGH Insights — a smarter, more accessible way to connect with City of Pittsburgh services - Our Agency Counter replacement!
Pause
Previous
Next
Press left and right keys to move between slides.
1
2
3
4
Certificate of Occupancy Search
Zoning applications and PLI permits, licenses, and more are now available online. Apply or renew today!
Construction Permit Tips
(PDF, 3MB)Licensing Rules and Regulations
(PDF, 626KB)Certificate of Occupancy Search
Zoning applications and PLI permits, licenses, and more are now available online. Apply or renew today!
OneStopPGH
OneStopPGH Insights
Occupancy Search
Where Is My Permit?
Applications & Forms
Explore and access essential applications and forms for permits, licenses, and more. Whether you're dealing with residential, commercial, contractor, trade, or business needs, find the right resources and links to streamline your process.
OneStopPGH
OneStopPGH is the central hub for Pittsburgh residents to apply, pay for, and receive business licenses, permits, and track violation notices. Create an account online for easy management or connect via live chat, phone, or email. Access resources from participating city departments, including PLI, DCP, DOMI, and more.
Permits
Learn about the different types of permits, the specific requirements for residential and commercial structures, and the various work types. Get insights on what work requires a permit and the step-by-step permit process.
Licenses
The Department of Permits, Licenses, and Inspections issues licenses for the following activities.
Bulletins
Documents that provide an overview of PLI construction procedures, guidance on code-related topics, and code interpretations. Please check back regularly for updates.
Community Resources
We have many resources available to community member and business owners to learn more about PLI.
Code Enforcement
One purpose of the Department of Permits, Licenses, and Inspections Code Enforcement is to protect the health, safety, and welfare in existing buildings and structures.
Condemned Buildings
The Department of Permits, Licenses and Inspections routinely inspects structures to assess building integrity. When a structure has been declared a public safety hazard, PLI will condemn the building.
PLI Fees
The cost of a permit will now be calculated based on the total construction value of the project.
Building Codes
Construction in Pennsylvania, including the City of Pittsburgh, is regulated by the Pennsylvania Construction Code Act or PA Act No. 45 of 1999, which is also commonly referred to as the Uniform Construction Code (UCC). The UCC adopts, in whole or part, the International Code Council’s (ICC) I-Codes.
Appeals
All appeal applications must be made electronically through the online OneStopPGH system.
PLI Contacts
Please contact supervisors individually for inquiries related to the individual staff they manage and otherwise use the shared email addressed identified below to ensure timely responses.
Announcements
Permits, Licenses, & Inspections News
Registrations
Explains the two types of registrations that PLI offers.
Back to top
Ready
jasujazumdinski