opens in new tab or window
In This Section
City Planning
Mobility and Infrastructure
Permits, Licenses, and Inspections  - Applications & Forms
OneStopPGH
Permits    - About PLI
Residential Permits
Commercial Permits
Permit Process
Work Not Requiring a Permit
Licenses
Bulletins
Community Resources
Code Enforcement
Condemned Buildings
PLI Fees
Building Codes
Appeals
PLI Contacts
Announcements
Registrations
Digital Equity In Pittsburgh
Small Business Resources
Public Works
Zoning
Geographic Information Systems, Mapping & Open Data
Procurement
PGH Lab
Sustainability
Electrical Permit
A commercial electrical permit is required for the following work on a commercial building or structure.
Renovate and repair existing electrical systems.
Extend or modify an existing electrical system.
Installation of a new electrical system.
Please see Permit Home for the definition of commercial structures and work types. Please see Work Not Requiring A Permit for work that can be performed without a PLI permit. Please visit our Contacts page for the Construction Inspector's contact information.
New Construction Work Scopes
The new construction work type applies to the installation of systems in a new building. The applicant shall identify one or more of the following work scopes:
Service, Distribution System, Power, and Lighting: installation of service, distribution system, power, and lighting. Installation of an exterior generator and/or transformer is not permitted under this work scope.
Equipment – Exterior: installation of an exterior generator and/or transformer.
Low Voltage System (50v Or Less): installation of any low voltage system that operates at 50V or less.
Communication Antenna System: installation of a communication antenna system with exterior equipment.
Ground Mounted Solar PV Array: installation of a PV array that is mounted on the ground and/or not on the roof of a building.
Roof Mounted Solar PV Array: installation of a PV array that is mounted on the roof of a building. Installation is limited to buildings with a valid certificate of occupancy.
Phased Work - Core And Shell: installation of systems associated with a phased building permit with a core and shell work scope. Work associated with the fit-out is not permitted. Selected in addition to one or more other work scopes.
Phased Work - Fit-Out: installation of systems associated with a phased building permit with fit-out work scope. Work associated with the core and shell is not permitted. Selected in addition to one or more other work scopes.
Sign Electric Work: installation of power for signs.
Swimming Pool: installation of grounding and bonding systems for a swimming pool, spa, or hot tub.
Temporary Utility Service/Generator: installation of a temporary utility service and/or generator associated with the construction of the building.
jasujazumdinski
Addition / Alteration Work Scopes
The addition/alteration work type applies to the alteration of existing systems or installation of new systems in an existing building. This work type excludes the work associated with the first fit-out of tenant space in a new building. The applicant shall identify one or more of the following work scopes:
Power: installation or modification of power devices.
Lighting: installation or modification of lighting system.
Service and/or Distribution System: installation or modification of service and distribution system. Installation of an exterior generator and/or transformer is not permitted under this work scope.
Service Reconnect In-Kind: reconnection of an existing previously approved electrical service in-kind (same location, phase, amperage, and service equipment).
Equipment – Exterior: installation of an exterior generator and/or transformer.
Low Voltage System (50v Or Less): installation of any low voltage system that operates at 50V or less.
Communication Antenna System: installation of a communication antenna system with exterior equipment.
Ground Mounted Solar PV Array: installation of a PV array that is mounted on the ground and/or not on the roof of a building.
Roof Mounted Solar PV Array: installation of a PV array that is mounted on the roof of a building. Installation is limited to buildings with a valid certificate of occupancy.
Phased Work - Core And Shell: installation of systems associated with a phased building permit with a core and shell work scope. Work associated with the fit-out is not permitted. Selected in addition to one or more other work scopes.
Phased Work - Fit-Out: installation of systems associated with a phased building permit with fit-out work scope. Work associated with the core and shell is not permitted. Selected in addition to one or more other work scopes.
Sign Electric Work: installation of power for signs.
Swimming Pool: installation of grounding and bonding systems for a swimming pool, spa, or hot tub.
Temporary Utility Service/Generator: installation of a temporary utility service and/or generator associated with the construction of the building.
Emergency Work – Service: replacement of electrical service or equipment condemned by PLI and/or required to maintain safe occupancy of an occupied building. A permit limited to this work scope has an SLA of 7 business days.
Emergency Work – Other: replacement of electrical equipment condemned by PLI and/or required to maintain safe occupancy of an occupied building. A permit limited to this work scope has an SLA of 7 business days.
Removal of System/Equipment: removal of a system and/or equipment that is not replaced.
jasujazumdinski
Minor Alteration Work Types
The minor alteration work type applies to the alteration of existing systems in an existing building with a valid certificate of occupancy. The applicant shall identify one or more of the following work scopes:
Service Reconnect In-Kind: reconnection of an existing previously approved electrical service in-kind (same location, phase, amperage, and service equipment).
Low Voltage System (50v Or Less): installation of any low voltage system that operates at 50V or less.
Work on Existing Lighting Circuits: modification of branch circuit wiring, lighting controls and wiring, and light fixtures (luminaries), if the overcurrent protection is not modified.
Work on Existing Power Circuits: modification of branch circuit wiring and power devices, if the overcurrent protection is not modified.
Sign Electric Work: installation of power for signs.
Single Branch Circuit (max 30A): installation of a single branch circuit with a maximum amperage of 30 that serves lighting and/or power devices and does not exceed the capacity of the panelboard
Temporary Utility Service/Generator: installation of a temporary utility service and/or generator associated with the construction of the building or a PLPLI-approved temporary event and/or structure.
Permit Process
See these web pages for additional information regarding the permitting process:
Permit Process
Application Submission
All other work types other than Minor Alteration requires submission of construction drawings to OneStopPGH.
Application Review
Permit Issuance
Permit Inspections
Current temporary PLI procedures require the permit holder for newly issued electrical permits to engage a registered Third Party Agency to perform electrical inspections.
Permit Completion
Please see Other Agency Coordination for processes related to other agencies that may relate to your permit scope. For commercial electrical permits:
Zoning Development Review application (ZDR) submission is required for the following new construction and addition/alteration work scopes:
Communication Antenna System.
Equipment – Exterior.
Ground Mounted Solar PV Array.
Development of a property in a regulated floodplain requires a PLI Floodplain permit.
PA Department of Health (DOH)
Required for a structure regulated by the PA Health Care Facilities Act.
Pittsburgh Bureau of Fire (PBF)
Work that includes transponders used for emergency responder radio coverage
Solar PV Array work scope.
last updated: 04/23/2025
Back to top
Ready
jasujazumdinski