Skip to main content
opens in new tab or window
In This Section

City Planning
Mobility and Infrastructure
Permits, Licenses, and Inspections  - Applications &amp; Forms
OneStopPGH    - Reference
OneStopPGH Video Tutorials
Building &amp; Development Application
OneStopPGH Contacts
Permit Amendments
Plan Review Meeting
Structure Types

Permits
Licenses
Bulletins
Community Resources
Code Enforcement
Condemned Buildings
PLI Fees
Building Codes
Appeals
PLI Contacts
Announcements
Registrations
Digital Equity In Pittsburgh
Small Business Resources
Public Works
Zoning
Geographic Information Systems, Mapping &amp; Open Data
Procurement
PGH Lab
Sustainability

Building &amp; Development Application
The Building And Development Application (BDA) is a new application type that replaces the current Zoning Development Review Application and Building Permit Application. If you're planning a construction project, this will typically be your initial step.
The intent of the Building And Development Application is that it will require no expertise in the construction process. The application uses simplified prompts that ask only for information relevant to your project. However, this page will provide some key pieces of information.
A Building And Development Application is typically requires for the following scopes:

Renovation or repair of an existing building or structure
Constructing an addition to an existing building or structure
Building a new structure
Obtaining zoning approval for structures that don't require a permit

Please see work not requiring a permit for work that can be performed without a PLI permit. Although the Building And Development Application will inform you if you do not require a permit for your work.
Please visit our Contacts page for the Construction Inspector's contact information.
jasujazumdinski
Other Agency Coordination
Every BDA will be reviewed by each of the relevant departments. This includes PLI, DCP, and DOMI. The departments will determine what is required for your project and will inform you of any additional required permits. Please see Other Agency Coordination for more information on processes related to other agencies that may relate to your permit scope. There is no need to apply for a Zoning Development Review application. The reviews associated with the ZDR are now incorporated into the BDA to remove the need for you to apply twice for the same scope. If a DOMI permit is required for the BDA scope, a DOMI reviewer will create a sub-permit for you and inform you of the requirement.
Permit Process
See these web pages for additional information regarding the permitting process:

Application Submission
Application Review
All Work Types other than Minor Alterations require submission of drawings to OneStopPGH
Permit Issuance
Permit Inspections
Permit Completion

last updated: 04/23/2025
Back to top
Ready
jasujazumdinski