opens in new tab or window
In This Section
City Planning
Mobility and Infrastructure
Permits, Licenses, and Inspections
Digital Equity In Pittsburgh
Small Business Resources
Public Works
Zoning  - Zoning FAQ
Planning Application and Process    - Fee Schedule
Property Certification
Consolidations/Subdivisions
Institutional Master Plan
Specially Planned Districts
Pre-Application Meeting
Planning Reviews, Public Notices and Public Hearings
Housing
Geographic Information Systems, Mapping & Open Data
Procurement
PGH Lab
Sustainability
Property Certification
Apply on OneStopPGH
What is a Property Certification?(show below)
The Property Certification Application is used to verify three conditions on the subject property, in accordance with Pennsylvania Act of Assembly #652, approved September 20, 1961:
Certification of Zoning Classification(PDF, 429KB) and Legality of Use
Certification of City Historic Designation
Certification of Code Violations and/or Unsafe Conditions
When is a Property Certification required?(show below)
A property certification is required whenever there is a real estate closing on a property due to a sale or refinance. (Note: this is the same thing that used to be called the zoning certificate.) It is a document intended for the benefit of a buyer or lender to let them know the zoning district of the property, the legality of use, if there is an occupancy permit on file, if the property is in a local historic district, and if there are any active code violations on file.
The application fee is $100 per application due at the time the application is submitted.
Fill out all applications online at OneStopPGH.
Who files for Property Certification?(show below)
The owner of the subject property or the owner's agent may make an application for a Certificate of Zoning Classification. Typically, the application is used when the property is changing ownership or when the owner is re-financing a mortgage.
What do Current and Proposed Use mean?(show below)
The application asks you to list the current and proposed use of the property before and after the real estate transaction. They can be the same if no change in use is proposed. For online applications, you will be required to select a use that best fits from the official Use Classifications within Pittsburgh’s Zoning Code, which are found in Chapter 911.02. Select all uses on the property being certified. While there is a category for “vacant,” that is for when a building or property is vacant. There is not an “other” category. If you are unsure about the correct Use Classification you may inquire with Zoning Staff at zoning@pittsburghpa.gov or by calling 412-255-2241.
The full list of Zoning Code uses and their definitions(PDF, 429KB) can be found here.
Do I need to list the number of units?(show below)
On the application form, include the current and proposed number of residential units. While a typical rowhouse is only one residential unit, there are exceptions, and therefore it is important to list the correct numbers so that staff can accurately complete your application.
How will I receive the completed certificate?(show below)
Completed property certifications filed through OneStopPGH can be downloaded through the applicant's user profile and will not be emailed back to the applicant.
Can I use the certificate instead of a certificate of occupancy or a record of zoning approval?(show below)
No. The Property Certificate does not certify that these premises are legally occupied or that the structure meets all Zoning Code and Building Code requirements unless a Certificate of Occupancy has been issued for the actual use of the property by the Dept. of Permits, Licenses, and Inspections.
jasujazumdinski
Contact Us
For more information about Property Certifications, email questions to: zoning@pittsburghpa.gov or call 412-255-2241.
last updated: 04/24/2025
Back to top
Ready
jasujazumdinski