opens in new tab or window
In This Section
City Planning
Mobility and Infrastructure
Permits, Licenses, and Inspections  - Applications & Forms
OneStopPGH
Permits
Licenses    - Business Licenses
Contractor Licenses
Trade Licenses
Bulletins
Community Resources
Code Enforcement
Condemned Buildings
PLI Fees
Building Codes
Appeals
PLI Contacts
Announcements
Registrations
Digital Equity In Pittsburgh
Small Business Resources
Public Works
Zoning
Geographic Information Systems, Mapping & Open Data
Procurement
PGH Lab
Sustainability
Secondhand Dealer, Junk Dealer, Pawnbroker Licenses
The City of Pittsburgh requires anyone who operates within the City as a pawnbroker, junk dealer, antique dealer, or second hand dealer to obtain a license from the Department of Permits, Licenses, and Inspections. For more information on how the City defines pawnbroker, junk dealer, antique dealer, and second hand dealer, please see the Rules and Regulations and Chapters 713 through 717 of the City Code.
Application Process
Prepare Required Documents
Check below for a list of license requirements
For more detailed info, check out the Rules and Regulations(PDF, 626KB)
Complete Application
Fill out an application online!
Submit Documents and Payment
Check the cost of your license application fee: Current Fee Schedule
Main License Requirements
Certificate of occupancy for use as retail store or junkyard. Search for existing certificates of occupancy.
City of Pittsburgh tax compliance letter from the City Finance department.
General Liability insurance certificate with the City of Pittsburgh listed as certificate holder.
Valid government-issued photo ID of the applicant.
Workers compensation certificate or affidavit of exemption.
ePatch Criminal Record Check for applicant.
jasujazumdinski
Additional License Requirements
If the business provides loans in exchange for merchandise and charges interest, a copy of a Pennsylvania Department of Banking and Securities license must be provided.
If the business buys or sells precious metals, an Allegheny County Precious Metals license must be provided. This is issued by the Allegheny County Sheriff's Office.
Late Fees
A late fee will be charged the day after your license expires. If your license is not renewed within 30 days of expiration, it is considered lapsed and closed. All business licenses expire a year from the date of issuance.
Resources
Looking for additional info or clarification on your license requirements?
Check out the Rules and Regulations(PDF, 626KB).
Where can I find my certificate of occupancy?
Check out PLI's online Occupancy Search.
How do I get a tax certification letter?
Call or email the Department of Finance.
Insurance Info
A non-expired Certificate of Insurance showing general liability coverage for the applicant at the location where licensed activity will take place, and listing the City of Pittsburgh as the certificate holder and additionally insured. General liability insurance minimums as follows: $1,000,000 each occurrence, $2,000,000 general aggregate.
Worker’s Compensation Insurance: A Certificate of Insurance showing Worker's Compensation coverage for the applicant business and listing the City of Pittsburgh as the certificate holder. If the business does not have any employees, then upload a notarized statement attesting that there are no employees.
Department of Permits, Licenses and Inspections Workers' Compensation Exemption Affidavit(PDF, 72KB).
last updated: 04/24/2025
Back to top
Ready
jasujazumdinski