Skip to main content
opens in new tab or window
In This Section

City Planning  - About City Planning
City Planning Meeting Calendar
City Planning Public Notices
Commissions and Boards
Historic Preservation Program
Public Art Program
Neighborhood Planning
Master &amp; Neighborhood Plans
City Planning Projects    - Riverbank Conditions Assessment and Best Practices Study
Broadway Avenue Public Realm Project
Hays Woods
Pittsburgh’s Riverfront Zoning

City Planning Programs
Development Review Process Guides
Mobility and Infrastructure
Permits, Licenses, and Inspections
Digital Equity In Pittsburgh
Small Business Resources
Public Works
Zoning
Geographic Information Systems, Mapping &amp; Open Data
Procurement
PGH Lab
Sustainability

Broadway Avenue Public Realm Project
 The City of Pittsburgh will redesign the Broadway Avenue streetscape in Beechview from Fallowfield Station to Wenzell Avenue. The project, which completed its planning phase in mid-late 2018 and is currently in the design phase for construction, is based on the 2011 SMART TRID study and is a result of engaging neighborhood residents, community groups, and stakeholders.
The scope of the project considers new elevated, ADA-accessible transit stops that include shelter from the elements, changes to the roadway, storm-water management infrastructure, and related streetscape improvements such as lighting, seating, and planting. Final improvements, design, and street configuration were determined through the community outreach process and input from the stakeholder group.
Broadway Avenue is a business district amidst revitalization by residents, the City, URA, property owners, and private developers. The neighborhood is well served by transit with a connection to downtown by the Port Authority’s Red Line. Many people arrive on Broadway by public transit but their trip does not begin or end at the T stop, it continues to their destination or residence.
This page will be updated as the work on this project progresses. In the meantime, please send comments to Mike Panzitta, Project Manager &amp; Engineer for the Pittsburgh Department of Mobility &amp; Infrastructure ( Michael.panzitta@pittsburghpa.gov). You can also reach out to the Department of City Planning’s Neighborhood Planner for Beechview, Thomas Scharff, at thomas.scharff@pittsburghpa.gov.
jasujazumdinski
How to Navigate
This website includes the following elements:

Brief overview of the BAPR Project
Diagrams of existing versus proposed street design
Construction information
Explanation of the planning process
Information presented and collected at public engagements
FAQ
Contact

Get Involved/Upcoming Events
The major public engagements for this project have already been completed, but the City continues to work with the community to explain the project going forward, answer questions and address concerns.
In the Spring and Summer of 2019, please contact the Project Manager, attend local community meetings for project updates, or check this website for regular project updates.
Construction on this project will begin in the Summer/Fall of 2019. At this point, the Department of Mobility and Infrastructure will reach out to the public to provide information about construction schedules, answer questions, and address concerns. More information about these engagements will be available soon.

Planning Process
Street Design
Construction
Past Engagements
Presentation Archive
last updated: 08/20/2025
Back to top
Ready
jasujazumdinski