opens in new tab or window
In This Section
City Planning
Mobility and Infrastructure
Permits, Licenses, and Inspections
Digital Equity In Pittsburgh
Small Business Resources
Public Works
Zoning
Geographic Information Systems, Mapping & Open Data  - Geographic Information System (GIS) & Mapping
PGH Open Data
Related Links & Resources
Procurement
PGH Lab
Sustainability
Open Data at the City of Pittsburgh
The City of Pittsburgh proactively releases information on City operations and services where anyone can view or download data. Our work adheres to the 2014 Open Data Ordinance (Pittsburgh Code of Ordinances I.VII §162).
Read the 2024 Open Data Report
To request open data: contact wprdc@pitt.edu
We publish open data via the Western PA Regional Data Center
We also publish full spatial data files via our GIS hub.
How We Make Data Open
We make data open through the Western Pennsylvania Regional Data Center (WPRDC), a partnership between the City, Allegheny County, and the University of Pittsburgh. The WPRDC hosts open data from a variety of sources throughout the region.
The City regularly collaborates with the WPRDC and City Departments to identify datasets to be made open. We receive requests for open data via the WPRDC and engage with community user groups to identify new opportunities for open data use. We use the Data Service Standard to prioritize open data releases.
Any user can data from the site and receive help from the dedicated WPRDC staff. WPRDC publishes data using the CKAN data catalog standard and makes data available using the CKAN Datastore OData API to support interoperability between systems using open data.
jasujazumdinski
We Make Data Open as a Service via a Set of Shared Principles
We support decision makers and innovators inside and outside the public sector by publishing open data with a purpose to ensure sustainable and equitable access to open data. We focus on users and the problems they need to solve. We provide context to them about the data released by the City via the Western PA Regional Data Center. Our principles are:
Publish Data with a Purpose
Understand the User, the Problem They Need to Solve, and Context
Make Information Accessible by Everyone
Communicate Clearly
Be Accountable and Transparent
Intentionally Choose Tools and Technology
Create Shared Outcome-Centered Vision
Build Intentional Relationships
Operate Reliably
Create Opportunities for More - and More Creative - Uses of Data
The full data service standard is available here.
GIS Open Data
WPRDC
Related Links & Resources
United States Census Data
Pennsylvania Spatial Data Access (PASDA)
Western Pennsylvania Regional Data Center
Read the 2024 Open Data Report
last updated: 09/12/2025
Back to top
Ready
jasujazumdinski