Skip to main content
opens in new tab or window
In This Section

Trash &amp; Recycling
311
A - Z: Frequently Visited
ADA &amp; Disability Rights  - Take Our Accessibility Survey
Disability Resources Center
Statutes &amp; Policies
City County Task Force on Disability
Make an Accommodations Request
CCB Accessibility Entrance
File a Grievance
OEP News
ADA FAQs
Disability Rights Brochure
Disability Rights Brochure: Screen Reader Accessible Version
Snow Removal
Road Maintenance
Food Programs
Pets &amp; Animals
Community Programming
Immigrant and Refugee Affairs
Tree Resources

Policy on Non-Discrimination on the Basis of Disability
In accordance with Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA), the City of Pittsburgh does not discriminate against individuals with disabilities on the basis of disability in its services, programs, or activities. If you are a person with a disability and require information or materials in an appropriate alternative format or if you require any other accommodation please contact the City staff. Advance notification will help to ensure the City is able to make reasonable arrangements to ensure accessibility. You may also contact the City ADA Coordinator.
Employment
The City of Pittsburgh does not discriminate on the basis of disability in its hiring or employment practices and complies with all regulations under the U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission under Title I of the ADA.
jasujazumdinski
Effective Communication
Upon request, the City of Pittsburgh will generally provide appropriate aids and services to ensure effective communication for persons with disabilities so that they can participate equally in its programs, services, and activities.
Modifications
The City of Pittsburgh will make all reasonable modifications to policies and programs to ensure that people with disabilities have equal opportunity to enjoy its programs services, and activities.
While the ADA does not require a governmental entity to take any action that would fundamentally alter the nature of its programs and services or impose an undue financial or administrative burden, the City of Pittsburgh strives be inclusive of all people in its programs, services, and activities.
The City of Pittsburgh will not place a surcharge on a particular individual with a disability or any group of individuals with disabilities to cover the cost of providing auxiliary aids/services or reasonable modifications of policy.
ADA Coordinator
Anyone who requires an accommodation for effective communication or a modification of policies or procedures to participate in a program, service, or activity provided by the City of Pittsburgh should contact the City ADA Coordinator as soon as possible but no later than two business days before the event. Please include a completed ADA Accommodations Request Form.
Michelle Walker ADA Coordinator
Mayor's Office of Equal Protection
414 Grant Street, 5th Floor
Pittsburgh PA 15219
ADA@pittsburghpa.gov
Please complete the ADA Grievance Form if you have made a request for ADA accommodations and do not agree with the outcome. This form will initiate a grievance with the City of Pittsburgh which will be addressed within 15 days
last updated: 04/04/2025
Back to top
Ready
jasujazumdinski