opens in new tab or window
In This Section
City Planning
Mobility and Infrastructure
Permits, Licenses, and Inspections  - Applications & Forms
OneStopPGH
Permits    - About PLI
Residential Permits
Commercial Permits
Permit Process
Work Not Requiring a Permit
Licenses
Bulletins
Community Resources
Code Enforcement
Condemned Buildings
PLI Fees
Building Codes
Appeals
PLI Contacts
Announcements
Registrations
Digital Equity In Pittsburgh
Small Business Resources
Public Works
Zoning
Geographic Information Systems, Mapping & Open Data
Procurement
PGH Lab
Sustainability
Suppression Systems Permit
A commercial suppression system permit is required for the following work on a commercial building or structure.
Renovate and repair existing suppression systems.
Extend or modify an existing suppression system.
Installation of a new suppression system.
Please see Permit Home for the definition of commercial structures and work types. Please see Work Not Requiring A Permit for work that can be performed without a PLI permit. Please visit our Contacts page for the Construction Inspector's contact information.
New System Work Scopes
The new system work type applies to the installation of new systems. The applicant shall identify one or more of the following work scopes:
Alt. Extinguishing System: installation of an alternative extinguishing system per Section 904 of the International Building Code.
Cooking Hood Suppression System: installation of a cooking hood suppression system.
Standpipe System: installation of a standpipe system.
Special Hazard System: installation of a special hazard suppression system.
Water Based - Above Ground System: installation of a water based system including portions.
Water Based - Dry System: installation of dry-pipe water based system.
Water Based - Preaction System: installation of a preaction water based system.
Water Based - Underground Fire Main: installation of an underground fire main for a water based system.
FDC: installation of a fire department connection.
Fire Pump: installation of a fire pump.
Hydrants: installation of private hydrants.
Phased Work – Core & Shell: installation of systems associated with a phased building permit with a core and shell work scope. Work associated with the fit-out is not permitted. Selected in addition to one or more other work scopes.
Phased Work – Fit-out: installation of systems associated with a phased building permit with fit-out work scope. Work associated with the core and shell is not permitted. Selected in addition to one or more other work scopes.
jasujazumdinski
Addition / Alteration Work Scopes
The addition/alteration work type applies to the alteration of an existing system. The applicant shall identify one or more of the following work scopes:
Alt. Extinguishing System: alteration of an alternative extinguishing system per Section 904 of the International Building Code.
Cooking Hood Suppression System: alteration of a cooking hood suppression system.
Standpipe System: alteration of a standpipe system.
Special Hazard System: alteration of a special hazard suppression system.
Water Based - Above Ground System: alteration of a water based system including portions.
Water Based - Dry System: alteration of dry-pipe water based system.
Water Based - Preaction System: alteration of a preaction water based system.
Water Based - Underground Fire Main: alteration of an underground fire main for a water based system.
FDC: installation of a fire department connection.
Fire Pump: installation of a fire pump.
Hydrants: installation of private hydrants.
Phased Work – Core & Shell: installation of systems associated with a phased building permit with a core and shell work scope. Work associated with the fit-out is not permitted. Selected in addition to one or more other work scopes.
Phased Work – Fit-out: installation of systems associated with a phased building permit with fit-out work scope. Work associated with the core and shell is not permitted. Selected in addition to one or more other work scopes.
Emergency Repair/Replacement: repair and/or replacement of elements condemned by PLI and/or damaged elements required to maintain safe occupancy of an occupied building.
Removal of System: removal of a system and/or equipment that is not replaced.
jasujazumdinski
Minor Alteration Work Types
The minor alteration work type applies to the alteration of existing systems in an existing building with a valid certificate of occupancy. The applicant shall identify one or more of the following work scopes:
Existing Cooking Hood Suppression System: alteration or replacement of an existing hood suppression system associated with an existing PLI-approved cooking hood if the cooking equipment has not changed.
Relocate Sprinkler Heads: relocation of existing sprinkler heads if the relocation does not affect the coverage area.
Replacement In Kind of Underground Fire Main: replacement in kind (same size, location, and configuration) of an underground fire main.
Replacement of Sprinkler Heads In-Kind: replacement of existing sprinkler heads in kind (same type of head, same characteristics, and same location).
Permit Process
See these web pages for additional information regarding the permitting process:
Permit Process
Application Submission
All other work types other than Minor Alteration requires submission of construction drawings to OneStopPGH.
Drawings shall be one of the following:
Prepared and sealed by a PA-licensed architect or engineer.
Prepared and sealed by a PA-licensed architect or engineer supplemented by shop drawings if accompanied by a statement from the architect or engineer that they have accepted the shop drawings as part of the construction drawings.
Prepared and signed by an individual with a Level III Nicet certification for the type of suppression system to be installed.
Water Based - Underground Fire Main and Replacement of Sprinkler Heads In-Kind work scopes, the water utility-approved tap-in drawings shall be submitted to PLI for review.
If the work scope is limited solely to Cooking Hood Suppression System the drawings do not need to comply with the above requirements.
Application Review
Permit Issuance
Permit Inspections
Hydrant Flow Test Report(PDF, 350KB) - required to be submitted for underground fire mains, new sprinkler systems, and private hydrants.
Statement of Compliance(PDF, 38KB) - required to be submitted prior to a final inspection.
Underground Material and Test Certificate(PDF, 188KB) - required to be submitted prior to final inspection if part of permit scope.
Aboveground Material and Test Certificate(PDF, 507KB) - required to be submitted prior to final inspection if part of permit scope.
Clean Agent Acceptance Inspection and Test(PDF, 399KB) - required to be submitted prior to final inspection if part of permit scope.
Wet Chemical Acceptance Inspection and Test(PDF, 502KB) - required to be submitted prior to final inspection if part of permit scope.
Permit Completion
Please see Other Agency Coordination for processes related to other agencies that may relate to your permit scope. For commercial suppression system permits:
Zoning Code Regulations
Development of a property in a regulated floodplain requires a PLI Floodplain permit.
PA Department of Health (DOH)
Required for a structure regulated by the PA Health Care Facilities Act.
Pittsburgh Water and Sewer Authority (PWSA)
Underground Fire Main work scope.
Pittsburgh Bureau of Fire (PBF)
FDC work scope.
last updated: 04/23/2025
Back to top
Ready
jasujazumdinski