opens in new tab or window
In This Section
City Planning
Mobility and Infrastructure  - About Mobility and Infrastructure
Maps
Plans    - Traffic Alerts and Advisories
City Bridges
Bike(+) Plan
City Steps
Mobility
Neighborways
Pedestrian Safety Action Plan
Pedestrian Wayfinding Kiosk Project
2070 Mobility Vision Plan
Strip District Mobility Plan
The Homewood Mobility Plan
Current DOMI Projects
Transportation Development Review
Right-of-Way Management
Permits, Licenses, and Inspections
Digital Equity In Pittsburgh
Small Business Resources
Public Works
Zoning
Geographic Information Systems, Mapping & Open Data
Procurement
PGH Lab
Sustainability
Pedestrian Safety Action Plan
Updated June 2022
The City of Pittsburgh’s Department of Mobility and Infrastructure (DOMI) is proud to release and implement the city's first Pedestrian Safety Action Plan.
Founded over 250 years ago, Pittsburgh was originally designed to be navigated on foot with sidewalks, pedestrian paths, and public steps connecting neighborhoods to schools and employment destinations. Many neighborhoods are within walking distance of main street business districts with varied and often historic buildings providing interest along the route. Pittsburgh’s history as a walking city influences the way people get around today. Pittsburgh has one of the highest rates of commuting on foot in the country and is one of the least-dependent on cars for commuting (U.S. Census, 2008-2012 and BikePGH, 2016).
Pedestrian Safety Action Plan(PDF, 116MB)
According to Director Karina Ricks, “This Plan is a roadmap that provides a holistic approach for implementation of strategies and actions to improve safety and access for people walking in the city.”
Image Sources: Elissa Goughnour, VHB, 2020.
jasujazumdinski
Goals of the Plan
The goal of the Pedestrian Safety Action Plan is to identify policy and infrastructure improvements that support the City’s mobility goals:
Goal 1: No one dies or is seriously injured traveling on city streets (streets and intersections are intuitive to use, even by an adolescent child).
Goal 2: Every resident can access fresh fruits and vegetables within 20 minutes travel of home (without requiring a private vehicle).
Goal 3: All trips less than 1 mile are easy and enjoyable to achieve by non-automobile travel.
Goal 4: No household must spend more than 45% of income on housing + transportation + energy (for any income quintile).
Goal 5: Our streets reflect the values and pride of our city.
To achieve DOMI’s goals, this Plan must define actionable steps toward a future where:
Step 1: People are safe walking day or night an in all neighborhoods.
Step 2: Pittsburgh has a pedestrian network that is accessible and intuitive for everyone.
Step 3: Kids can safely walk around Pittsburgh.
Step 4: Pittsburgh’s pedestrian network is connected to other modes.
Step 5: Walking supports community mental and physical health, well-being, and connections.
This Plan was developed through a collaborative effort by the Pittsburgh Department of Mobility and Infrastructure (DOMI), the Federal Highway Administration (FHWA), and a core group of local stakeholders. Based on a detailed analysis of local crash data, it identifies:
Critical pedestrian safety issues
Locations with a higher risk for pedestrian crashes
Specific actions that DOMI will undertake
Metrics for monitoring performance over time
jasujazumdinski
Haiku Safety Program – Poetry and Art Contest
DOMI is also excited to announce the Haiku Safety Program Poetry and Art Contest. This public art installation uses colorful, temporary signs and poetry made by submissions from Pittsburgh residents to underscore the important message of sharing the streets safely with pedestrians, bicyclists, and motorists.
Pittsburgh residents are invited to submit their transportation themed haikus and art to the contest website from May 28 - June 13, 2021. Winners will receive a prize bag and the top Haiku(s) will be transformed into signs and installed at high traffic intersections, or near cultural institutions and schools to draw attention to transportation safety.
Citation
U.S. Census Bureau - Bicycling and Walking to Work in the United States: 2008–2012
BikePGH - 2016 Census Numbers: Pittsburgh Bucks National Trend, Sees Large Increase in Bike Commuters.
last updated: 04/23/2025
Back to top
Ready
jasujazumdinski