opens in new tab or window
In This Section
City Planning
Mobility and Infrastructure
Permits, Licenses, and Inspections  - Applications & Forms
OneStopPGH
Permits
Licenses    - Business Licenses
Contractor Licenses
Trade Licenses
Bulletins
Community Resources
Code Enforcement
Condemned Buildings
PLI Fees
Building Codes
Appeals
PLI Contacts
Announcements
Registrations
Digital Equity In Pittsburgh
Small Business Resources
Public Works
Zoning
Geographic Information Systems, Mapping & Open Data
Procurement
PGH Lab
Sustainability
Stationary Power Engineer License
The City of Pittsburgh requires a Stationary Engineer license for any person that controls or operates pipes, boilers, stationary or locomotive engines, and/or any other containers, tanks or vessels under pressure of water, liquid, gas or steam in the City of Pittsburgh.
Wondering How Much Your License Costs?
All Department of Permits, Licenses and Inspections fees change annually. Consult the Current Fee Schedule for new applications, renewals, and late fees.
Late Fees
A 60 day grace period begins when your license expires. A late fee will be charged 30 days after your license expires. If your license is not renewed within 60 days of expiration, it is considered lapsed and closed. All contractor and trade licenses expire a year from the date of issuance.
jasujazumdinski
License Requirements
New Licensees:
A copy of proof of passing the appropriate certified standardized test issued by the NIULPE OR a copy of the NIULPE card.
Non-Expired Government Issued Photo ID.
Renewal:
Proof of completing eight (8) hours of CEUs within the previous twelve (12) months from the license renewal date.
Non-Expired Government Issued Photo ID.
Resources
Looking for additional info or clarification on your license requirements?
Check out the Rules and Regulations(PDF, 626KB)
Testing for new Stationary Engineers is performed by the National Institute for the Uniform Licensing of Power Engineers (NIULPE)
Continuing Education Credits
PLI will accept relevant continuing education credits from accredited institutions as listed by:
The ICC Preferred Provider’s Directory. For a full list of current providers, visit ICC Preferred Provider website, and click on “Providers Directory.”
The Pennsylvania Department of Labor and Industry's (PA - DLI) UCC continuing education providers.
For Stationary Power Engineers, relevant trainings provided by the International Union of Operating Engineers (“IUOE”) and relevant Occupational Safety and Health Administration (“OSHA”) courses.
Relevant trainings provided by trade-specific union and apprenticeship programs are accepted.
PLI will review requests outside the above categories on a case by case basis
last updated: 04/24/2025
Back to top
Ready
jasujazumdinski