Skip to main content
opens in new tab or window
In This Section

Trash &amp; Recycling
311
A - Z: Frequently Visited
ADA &amp; Disability Rights  - Take Our Accessibility Survey
Disability Resources Center
Statutes &amp; Policies
City County Task Force on Disability
Make an Accommodations Request
CCB Accessibility Entrance
File a Grievance
OEP News
ADA FAQs
Disability Rights Brochure
Disability Rights Brochure: Screen Reader Accessible Version
Snow Removal
Road Maintenance
Food Programs
Pets &amp; Animals
Community Programming
Immigrant and Refugee Affairs
Tree Resources

City County Task Force on Disability
Function
The City-County Task Force on Disabilities is a 13-member panel of advocates, service providers, and consumers appointed by the Mayor and County Executive who advise the City and County on issues that affect people with disabilities in the region. The Task Force meets on the third Monday of every month.
Governing Documents
Intergovernmental Cooperation Agreement – Joint Task Force on Disabilities

Guidelines of the City-County Task Force on Disabilities(PDF, 134KB)

Appointment Guidelines
13 Members

Six appointed by County Executive
Six appointed by Mayor of Pittsburgh
One elected by the other 12 appointees

Members
City Appointees:

Tess Dally, Chair
Tyi-Sanna Jones
Mark Schmeler
Vidya Surti

County Appointees:

Sarah Goldstein
James “Chris” Noschese
Vanessa Rastović, Treasurer
John Tague
Karen Warman-Smith

jasujazumdinski
CCTFD Appointee:

Paul “Rich” McGann, Co-Chair

Meetings
The Task Force meets on the third Monday of every month, except holidays.
Join the virtual meeting

You will be added as an attendee. This will allow you to watch the meeting, but will not allow you to speak until called upon.
If you would like to speak on a topic, please use the “raise hand” function to signify to the host that you would like to speak. You will be called on and given the opportunity to present at that time.

Register for the upcoming Task Force meeting
The Disability Advocacy and Inclusion Committee, a subcommittee of the CCTFD, convenes on the second Monday of every month, except holidays. Register for the upcoming Advocacy and Inclusion Committee meeting.
Un/subscribe: CCTFDNews
Meeting Archive - All past meetings can be viewed at the City's Legistar site.
Contact Us
ADA Coordinator
ADA@pittsburghpa.gov
Submit an Item to CCTFD's Listserv
Request to Include Announcement
last updated: 09/23/2025
Back to top
Ready
jasujazumdinski