Skip to main content
opens in new tab or window
In This Section

City Planning
Mobility and Infrastructure
Permits, Licenses, and Inspections  - Applications &amp; Forms
OneStopPGH
Permits
Licenses    - Business Licenses
Contractor Licenses
Trade Licenses

Bulletins
Community Resources
Code Enforcement
Condemned Buildings
PLI Fees
Building Codes
Appeals
PLI Contacts
Announcements
Registrations
Digital Equity In Pittsburgh
Small Business Resources
Public Works
Zoning
Geographic Information Systems, Mapping &amp; Open Data
Procurement
PGH Lab
Sustainability

Towing License
In order for the owner or operator of a non-residential parking place/lot to remove or have a vehicle removed from the parking place lot, the City of Pittsburgh requires the person to obtain an annual limited towing license. The requirement does not apply to abandoned vehicles. Inspections are completed to insure that the parking place/lot meet applicable PennDOT Signage Regulations, and that the name and contact info of the towing company are prominently displayed.
For more information on the requirements and restrictions of a limited towing license, see Chapter 763, section 12 of the City Code and the PLI Rules and Regulations(PDF, 626KB).

Application Process

Prepare Required Documents
Check below for a list of license requirements
For more detailed info, check out the Rules and Regulations(PDF, 626KB)
Complete Application
Fill out an application online!
Submit Documents and Payment
Check the cost of your license application fee here: Current Fee Schedule
Inspections
New licenses are subject to inspection by PLI prior to issuance.
Renewed licenses are subject to periodic maintenance inspections.

jasujazumdinski
License Requirements

Certificate of occupancy for parking lot or spaces. Search for existing certificates of occupancy.
General Liability insurance certificate with the City of Pittsburgh listed as certificate holder.
Valid government-issued photo ID of the applicant.
Sketch or plot drawing of details of the lot. For parking garages, a description of the number of uniformed security and floor plans should be included.

Late Fees
A late fee will be charged the day after your license expires. If your license is not renewed within 30 days of expiration, it is considered lapsed and closed. All business licenses expire a year from the date of issuance.
Resources
Looking for additional info or clarification on your license requirements?
Check out the Rules and Regulations(PDF, 626KB)
Where can I find my certificate of occupancy?
Check out PLI's online Occupancy Search
Insurance Info
A non-expired Certificate of Insurance showing general liability coverage for the applicant at the location where licensed activity will take place, and listing the City of Pittsburgh as the certificate holder and additionally insured. General liability insurance minimums as follows: $1,000,000 each occurrence, $2,000,000 general aggregate.
last updated: 04/24/2025
Back to top
Ready
jasujazumdinski