opens in new tab or window
In This Section
City Planning  - About City Planning
City Planning Meeting Calendar
City Planning Public Notices
Commissions and Boards
Historic Preservation Program
Public Art Program
Neighborhood Planning
Master & Neighborhood Plans
City Planning Projects    - Riverbank Conditions Assessment and Best Practices Study
Broadway Avenue Public Realm Project
Hays Woods
Pittsburgh’s Riverfront Zoning
City Planning Programs
Development Review Process Guides
Mobility and Infrastructure
Permits, Licenses, and Inspections
Digital Equity In Pittsburgh
Small Business Resources
Public Works
Zoning
Geographic Information Systems, Mapping & Open Data
Procurement
PGH Lab
Sustainability
Waterfronts that Work Summit
Thank you for making the Summit a Success!
We were pleased to host the Waterfronts that Work Summit on March 16, 2017. More than 160 people attended to learn from five panelists representing a variety of waterfront conditions and approaches from across the country.
What did our panelists think were Pittsburgh’s greatest opportunities (and responsibilities) as we continue improving our riverfronts?
Public engagement, public engagement, public engagement.
With 35 miles of riverfront, we have a great opportunity to provide for a broad mix of uses.
Keep it authentic!
Connectivity – With 35 miles to work with we must make sure we’re improving mobility and accessibility by providing access to a variety of transportation and recreation options.
Focus on the river! Riverfront development should acknowledge the amenity, not turn its back on the river.
Waterfronts that Work Summit Presentation(PDF, 12MB)
Summary of Key Takeaways from the Summit(PDF, 71KB)
jasujazumdinski
Event Panelists
Uwe S. Brandes
Director, Masters Program in Urban & Regional Planning at Georgetown University. Formerly Director of Capital Projects and Planning for the Anacostia Waterfront Corporation.
Uwe S. Brandes has over 20 years of experience in the planning, design and construction of new buildings, public infrastructure and the urban landscape. He is professor of practice and founder of the masters program in urban planning at Georgetown University and principal of Brandes Partners LLP, an urban development strategy practice. From 2007 to 2013 he served as Senior Vice President of the Urban Land Institute where he oversaw global research on sustainable development and climate change.
Prior to ULI, he served as managing director of the multi-agency Anacostia Waterfront Initiative in Washington, DC. Over $3 billion of public and private investment was catalyzed during his eight-year tenure. Brandes serves on the board of the NOMA Parks Foundation. He is a Fulbright Scholar, earned an A.B. from the Dartmouth College Thayer School of Engineering and Master of Architecture from the Harvard University Graduate School of Design.
Troy Doss
Senior Planner, Central City Team at the Bureau of Planning & Sustainability, City of Portland, Oregon.
Troy Doss is a Senior Planner with the Portland Bureau of Planning & Sustainability’s Central City Team. Troy was the project manager for the SE Quadrant Plan, Central City 2035 Concept Plan, North Pearl District Plan, and has been the lead planner for the implementation of the South Waterfront Plan, and was on the design and planning advisor groups for the Portland Aerial Tram, Tilikum Crossing, and Director Park.
Prior to his time with the City, Troy worked in the public sector for the California Coastal Commission and then the Columbia River Gorge Commission focusing on natural disaster mitigation policy and habitat restoration projects. He also has experience in the private sector working on planning, urban design, and landscape design projects in California, Oregon, Washington, and Alaska. Troy holds a bachelor of science in landscape architecture from California State Polytechnic University, Pomona.
jasujazumdinski
Charles C. Graves III
Director, Department of City Planning for the City of Cincinnati, Ohio.
Charles C. Graves III is the Director of the Department of City Planning for the City of Cincinnati. Mr. Graves previously worked as the Deputy Director of Long Range Planning in the office of Planning for Washington D.C., where he helped develop the Comprehensive Plan for the city. In his career he has also served as the Commissioner of Planning and Community Development in Atlanta, Ga., Director of Planning for Baltimore, Md., and Director of Planning and Development in Appleton, Wis.
Mr. Graves holds a Bachelor of Arts in Political Science and Urban Planning from Hampton University. He also received his Master of Science in Community Economic Development from New Hampshire College and achieved a Certificate of Advanced Study from Harvard University’s John F. Kennedy School of Government Program for Senior Executives in State and Local Government.
Alyssa Remington
Economic Development Specialist, City of Milwaukee, Wisconsin.
Alyssa Remington is an Economic Development Specialist with the City of Milwaukee’s Department of City Development. In the position since 2007, her primary responsibility is the on-going management of seven Tax Incremental Financing Districts, which support downtown riverfront development efforts, including the public Riverwalk System. Constructed over the last 25 years, Milwaukee’s three-mile long Riverwalk is a $52 million public-private infrastructure project with a catalytic effect on downtown development, having created a $900 million increase in property values.
Always drawn to water, Alyssa was a member of the University of Wisconsin’s Women’s Rowing Team as an undergraduate and she continued as a coach and program director for the junior team at the Milwaukee Rowing Club while she pursued her Master’s degree in Urban Planning from the University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee. Working with waterways both professionally and recreationally, Alyssa views the Milwaukee River as one of the city’s most valuable assets. She uses her position to maintain the relationships which are essential to its preservation and ensures access and enjoyment for all.
jasujazumdinski
Robert D. Rivers
Executive Director, City Planning Commission, City of New Orleans, Louisiana.
Bob Rivers has been the Executive Director of the New Orleans City Planning Commission since 2013. During this time, Mr. Rivers has overseen the completion, approval and implementation of the City’s new Comprehensive Zoning Ordinance, including new storm water management regulations, as well as various planning studies on such topics as Main Street Resiliency, Short Term Rentals, Inclusionary Zoning, Riverfront Development, Alternative Street Naming, Neighborhood Participation, and Adult Live Entertainment. He is currently managing overhauls of the City’s Master Plan, Subdivision Regulations, Administrative Rules and Procedures, and Design Review processes.
Prior to the City Planning Commission, Mr. Rivers was Deputy Chief City Attorney in the City’s Law Department, overseeing transactional and regulatory matters, was a Special Counsel in the Real Estate Section of Jones Walker’s New Orleans office, and was the Administrator of the Nantucket Historic District Commission. Mr. Rivers has also held a number of other planning positions in New Orleans, Washington, DC, Virginia, Maryland and Massachusetts. Mr. Rivers holds an undergraduate degree in Architecture from Princeton University, a Master’s Degree in Urban and Regional Planning from George Washington University, and a JD with honors from the Tulane University School of Law.
jasujazumdinski
Partners and Sponsors
Thanks to our team of partners and sponsors who helped to make this exciting event happen!
Thank you to AIA Pittsburgh for providing AIA/CES continuing education credits.
The Summit has also been approved for 2 AICP CM credits.
View language to self-report 2.0 GBCI continuing education credit hours(PDF, 95KB).
Sponsored by APA PA, Southwest Section
last updated: 08/20/2025
Back to top
Ready
jasujazumdinski