opens in new tab or window
In This Section
Mayor
City Controller  - About the Controller    - Core Services
Biography of City Controller Rachael Heisler
Contact the Controller's Office
Fiscal Focus PGH
Audits & Reports
Pittsburgh Watchdog
Unclaimed Property
Campaign Finances
Disclosure of Interest Reports
City Council
Boards, Authorities, Commissions
Legal Services
Jobs
Finance & Budget
Contacts & Information
About the Controller
The City Controller is one of two independently elected, citywide offices in the City of Pittsburgh, the other being the Mayor. The term of office for the City Controller is four years, and is not term limited.
The City Controller is the fiscal watchdog for the citizens of the City of Pittsburgh. It is the job of the Controller to protect City tax dollars from waste, fraud and abuse. The Controller does this by auditing all city government related expenditures (the City also has a Finance Department and Treasurer who collect and audit all City revenues).
The Controller also conducts audits of all City departments and City component units such as the Urban Redevelopment Authority (URA), Pittsburgh Parking Authority, Pittsburgh Water and Sewer Authority, and the Sports and Exhibition Authority of Pittsburgh and Allegheny County.
Through audits of City departments and authorities, the Controller makes recommendations on how to make those departments more effective, efficient and how to better spend City tax dollars.
In addition to auditing City departments, the City Controller reviews and approves City contracts and is also charged with reporting to the citizens of Pittsburgh, the Mayor, and City Council the state of the City’s fiscal condition.
Every year, the City Controller issues the Annual Comprehensive Financial Report (AR). The ACFR provides detailed information on Pittsburgh’s short-term and long-term financial outlook.
Lastly, the City Controller sits on the boards of the city’s Municipal Pension Fund and the Comprehensive Municipal Fund.
Core Services
Biography of City Controller Rachael Heisler\
Contact the Controller's Office
last updated: 07/02/2025
Back to top
Ready
jasujazumdinski