opens in new tab or window
In This Section
Police
Fire
Animal Care & Control
Emergency Medical Services
Office of Community Health and Safety
Alerts
Public Safety  - Animal Care & Control
Disruptive Properties    - Disruptive Properties Appeals Board
Pittsburgh Properties Designated Disruptive
Emergency Management and Homeland Security
National Night Out
Nighttime Economy
Office of Film & Event Management
Park Rangers
Violence Prevention
Public Safety Contacts
Disruptive Properties
The Disruptive Properties program is a collaboration between the Department of Public Safety and the Mayor’s Office of Equal Protection.
The Mayor’s Office of Equal Protection enforces and ensures compliance with Chapter 670 of the City Code, the Disruptive Properties ordinance. Disruptive commercial properties threaten the health, safety, and welfare of the residents of the City of Pittsburgh and burden its public safety services. When owners repeatedly violate the law by permitting illegal activities onsite or failing to properly maintain their commercial properties, the City may take action against them.
Such action is reserved for repeated, unabated offenses. A commercial property may be designated as Disruptive pursuant to Chapter 670 only after a single felony violation or at least three citations for disruptive activity. Neighbors disturbed by properties in disrepair are advised to contact the City’s 3-1-1 Response Center to initiate a complaint.
Designation as a Disruptive Property has serious consequences. The Public Safety Director is authorized to charge the property owner for all costs of law enforcement or public services called to a Disruptive Property. When a property violation remains unabated for an unreasonably long period of time, misdemeanor charges may also result.
Submit an Abatement Plan
Disruptive Properties Ordinance(PDF, 4MB)
Disruptive Properties Brochure(PDF, 3MB)
Disruptive Properties Appeals Board
Pittsburgh Properties Designated Disruptive
Nuisance Bar Complaint Form
Office of Equal Protection News
Office of Equal Protection
Public Safety
jasujazumdinski
Contact Us
Disruptive Properties
Department of Public Safety
414 Grant Street
Pittsburgh, PA 15219
DisruptiveProperties@pittsburghpa.gov
last updated: 09/08/2025
Back to top
Ready
jasujazumdinski