Skip to main content
opens in new tab or window
In This Section

Police  - Police Zones    - Police Headquarters
Police Zone 1
Police Zone 2
Police Zone 3
Police Zone 4
Police Zone 5
Police Zone 6

Police Officer Recruitment
File a Police Report
Submit a Tip
Submit a Silent Complaint
Compliment an Officer
Police Data Portal
Branches
About Police
Fire
Animal Care &amp; Control
Emergency Medical Services
Office of Community Health and Safety
Alerts
Public Safety

Police Zone 1

Connecting the Police and the Community
 Pittsburgh police are proud to partner with One Northside, a resident-driven initiative, proudly supports efforts of Zone 1 police officers and Northside residents to work collaboratively to build trust and prevent crime in all 18 neighborhoods of the Northside.
Numbers to Know
911
Emergency Services
Police, EMS, Fire
211
Emergency Services
Talk with a resource specialist for free
311
Non-Emergency Services
Find information about services, make complaints, or report problems.
988
Suicide and Crisis Lifeline
Free and confidential support for people in distress, prevention and crisis resources
Zone 1 Monthly Crime Statistics
(Updated 10/1/25 at 5:00 PM)
Previous column Next column
| Reports | Arrests | Homicide | Aggravated Assault | Arson | Burglary | Sex Assault | Robbery | Theft |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 |
jasujazumdinski
Zone 1 Yearly Crime Statistics
(Updated Monthly)
Previous column Next column
| Reports | Arrests | Homicide | Aggravated Assault | Arson | Burglary | Sex Assault | Robbery | Theft |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 2821 | 927 | 4 | 118 | 13 | 79 | 31 | 48 | 451 |
Community Alerts and Upcoming Events
Fall 2025 Citizen and Student Police Academy Registration(show below)
Pittsburgh Police Citizen &amp; Student Academy Programs
The Pittsburgh Bureau of Police is offering two exceptional, free programs that allow community members and students to explore the world of law enforcement, learn about police operations, and engage directly with officers in a safe and educational environment. These academies help strengthen community relationships and increase understanding of public safety efforts in Pittsburgh.

Citizen Police Academy (CPA)
For adults age 18 and older
The Citizen Police Academy is a 12-week training program designed for adult residents who want to learn more about the Pittsburgh Bureau of Police. Participants will receive two hours of instruction each week, covering topics such as:

Criminal law

Patrol tactics

Police accountability

Specialized units

Police canines

Crime scene processing

Location:
Jewish Community Center
5738 Darlington Road
Pittsburgh, PA 15217
Schedule:

Registration Deadline: September 15, 2025

Classes Begin: September 26, 2025

Time: 6:30 PM – 8:30 PM (weekly sessions)

jasujazumdinski
Student Police Academy (SPA)
For high school students
The Student Police Academy offers high school students a 10-week introduction to police training and operations. Participants receive 1.5 hours of instruction weekly and will gain exposure to a variety of police procedures and specialized units. Topics include:

Criminal law

Patrol tactics

Police accountability

Exposure to specialty units and operations

Location:
Point Park University
201 Wood Street
Pittsburgh, PA 15222
Schedule:

Registration Deadline: September 26, 2025

Classes Begin: October 7, 2025

Time: 6:30 PM – 8:00 PM (weekly sessions)

jasujazumdinski
Apply Today – Seats Are Limited
To be considered, all applicants must complete the online application:
https://pittsburghpa.gov/safety/citizens-police-academy
For questions or more information, contact:
John Tokarski
Email: john.tokarski@pittsburghpa.gov
Phone: 412-432-8674
Note: These programs are not accredited certification courses to become sworn police officers. Participation is for educational and community engagement purposes only. Applicants must meet the minimum age requirements to be eligible.
Mayor Ed Gainey Statement on NFL Draft(show below)
Pittsburgh is a city that many people take pride in calling ‘home,’a great placeto live anda fantastic place tovisit.Hosting the NFL Draft in 2026 will allow us toshowcasewhat makes this citysospecialandhighlight theintegral rolewe playin the story of this beloved sport.We’rethankful the NFL believes in the City’s ability to host thisevent and provide football and sports fans alike with a memorable experience.I'dalso like to thank the Steelers,VisitPittsburgh, and other regional stakeholders for theircollaborative spirit andcommitment toshowcasingeverything our city has to offer. - Mayor Ed Gainey
Safety Alert(show below)
(Posted 10/1/25 at 5:00 PM)
Please remember to lock your vehicles when they are unattended. There were 21 Theft from Vehicle reports taken in Zone 1 in the month of September. In far too many cases, the vehicles were left unlocked, both intentionally and unintentionally, and the victims had left valuables in the vehicle, out in the open. While in other cases, force was used to enter the vehicle. Below are some tips to help prevent Thefts from Vehicles.

Make sure that all of the doors are locked, and the windows are closed.
Invest in a steering wheel lock, glass break detector, vehicle security alarm system or some other type of vehicle anti-theft device.
Take all valuables out of the vehicle or store them in locked compartments inside your vehicle where they cannot be seen.
Always park your vehicle in well-lit populated areas.

Connect with Cops(show below)
Saturday July 29th, 2023
Zone 1 Officers take a break from Patrol to enjoy a game of basketball with local kids at the Manchester Community Day Event!

Pittsburgh Bureau of Police Make Operational Changes to Better Serve Pittsburgh(show below)
Pittsburgh, PA. Beginning Monday, February 26, 2024, Pittsburgh Bureau of Police personnel will transition from traditional eight-hour work days, back to four 10-hour shifts each week, with three consecutive days off.
This organizational change is designed to enhance officer wellness, a key pillar in Chief Scirotto’s priorities for the Bureau.
“An additional day away from work each week to focus on family, friends, or outside pursuits is key to creating a healthy workforce and contributes to the Bureau’s goal of not only recruiting new officers, but retaining them for the long haul, ” said Chief Larry Scirotto. Officers will also be afforded one hour of wellness time each week while on shift to use at their discretion.
In addition to the revised work schedule, the Bureau is making additional adjustments to more effectively serve Pittsburgh residents and visitors to the city.
Some of the changes are as follows:

Centralized deployment established for the night shift where police units will be strategically placed throughout the zones staffed by multiple supervisors and a night watch commander who will oversee operations and allocate resources to areas of need throughout the city
New watch commander added to the p.m. shift
Formation of the Violent Crime Division to include Homicide, Narcotics, Intelligence, and the Violence Prevention Unit with the overarching goal of reducing violent crime and gun violence
Installation of blue phones with a direct line to 9-1-1 outside all six police zones and the Downtown Public Safety Center for use between 3 a.m. and 7 a.m. when officers are deployed in the field
Creation of an enhanced Telephone Reporting Unit (TRU) operating from 7-3 a.m. daily, including weekends. Dispatch will assign reports to the TRU for calls that do not require an in-person response by officers. TRU will NOT be assigned to any “In Progress” call where a suspect may be on scene, any crime where a person may need medical aid, any domestic dispute, calls with evidence, or where the Mobile Crime Unit will be requested to process a scene
Creation of the Pittsburgh Police Cares portal on the City of Pittsburgh website modeled on the current Zone 1 Cares initiative. The online portal will be one-stop shopping for police/community engagement events, safety alerts, monthly crime statistics, and zone/neighborhood-centered news
Online citizen reporting

“Following thorough audits of how police resources were being allocated, these improvements are backed by data to ensure that the Pittsburgh Bureau of Police is serving the city in the most efficient and responsible manner, placing the primary focus on areas of concern to enhance quality of life in our neighborhoods, improve community/police partnerships, and prioritize officer wellness. These are my key priorities for the Bureau, which will only serve to strengthen public safety in the city,” said Scirotto.
Cara Cruz
Public Information Officer
Public Safety
cara.cruz@pittsburghpa.gov
jasujazumdinski

Zone 1
Commander Shawn Malloy
1501 Brighton Rd.
(412) 323-7201
shawn.malloy@pittsburghpa.gov
Northview Heights Calvin M. Hall Public Safety Center(show below)

Sgt. D. Mitchell

don.mitchell@pittsburghpa.gov
- Officer Cancilla
- Officer Davies
Sector 1: Brighton Heights, Marshall-Shadeland(show below)
AM Shift: Lt. P. Mercurio

Sgt. T. Clinton

tracey.clinton@pittsburghpa.gov
- Sgt. K. Kim
kurt.kim@pittsburghpa.gov
- Officer M. Smith
- Officer J. Knoerl
- Officer J. Giles
PM Shift: Lt. Vacant

Sgt. E. Meyers

emily.myers@pittsburghpa.gov
- Sgt. E. Palchak
erin.palchak@pittsburghpa.gov
- Officer M. Palinski
- Officer C. Brough
- Officer A. Dilley
- Officer R. Kolat
- Officer J. Hauser
- Officer G. Houser
- Officer C. Donnelly
Sector 2: Summer Hill, Spring Hill, Troy Hill, Spring Garde &amp; Northview Heights(show below)
AM Shift: Lt. P. Mercurio

Sgt. S. Labella

stephanie.labella@pittsburghpa.gov
- Sgt. J. Tagmyer
jeffrey.tagmyer@pittsburghpa.gov
- Officer J. Novak
- Officer R. Krawchyk
- Officer G. Cunic
PM Shift: Lt. Vacant

Sgt. C. Horvath

cynthia.horvath@pittsburghpa.gov
- Sgt. K. Leithner
kenneth.leithner@pittsburghpa.gov
- Officer Z. Smith
- Officer R. Kozup
- Officer P. Weaver
- Officer D. Weaver
Sector 3: Chateau, Manchester, California-Kirkbride, Allegheny Center, Central Northside, East Allegheny &amp; West Allegheny(show below)
AM Shift: Lt. P. Mercurio

Sgt. S. Labella

stephanie.labella@pittsburghpa.gov
- Sgt. J. Tagmyer
jeffrey.tagmyer@pittsburghpa.gov
- Office B. Palivoda
- Officer A. Horning
- Officer G. Figueroa
- Officer C. Nath
PM Shift: Lt. Vacant

Sgt. C. Horvath

cynthia.horvath@pittsburghpa.gov
- Sgt. K. Leithner
kenneth.leithner@pittsburghpa.gov
- Officer M. McShane
- Officer N. Gadola
- Officer S. Tessmer
- Officer D. Bertan
- Officer J. Ostrowski
- Officer K. Clark
- Officer A. Dickant
Sector 4: Perry North, Perry South (Perry Hilltop), Fineview(show below)
AM Shift: Lt. P. Mercurio

Sgt. T. Clinton

tracey.clinton@pittsburghpa.gov
- Sgt. K. Kim
kurt.kim@pittsburghpa.gov
- Officer D. Dailey
- Officer T. Potts
- Officer R. McDonald
- Officer D. Dunn
- Officer D. Hartung
PM Shift: Lt. Vacant

Sgt. E. Myers

emily.myers@pittsburghpa.gov
- Sgt. E. Palchak
erin.palchak@pittsburghpa.gov
- Officer D. Palermo
- Officer E Folino
- Officer A. Dice
- Officer J. Loritz
jasujazumdinski
Community Resources and Groups
Community Resources(show below)
Zone 1 Police Department
The Zone 1 Police Department covers the eighteen neighborhoods of the Northside of Pittsburgh.
File a Police Report
Police reports can be filed by calling 911 or by visiting the Zone 1 Police Department.
Access Domestic Violence Resources
Resources are available to support victims of abuse.
Apply to become a Police Officer
The City of Pittsburgh is accepting applications for the Police Officer position. Apply today!
Find your neighborhood Block Watch - TBA
Search for Block Watch Groups in your area.
Megan’s Law Electronic Notification System
Sign up to receive email for the individuals currently registered with the Pennsylvania State Police as active sexual offenders pursuant to Pennsylvania’s Megan’s Law.
Community Groups(show below)
Northside Public Safety Council
President: Cecelia Ware
Phone: 412-345-1366
Email: zone1psc@gmail.com
Website: www.manchestercitizens.org
Meetings: The general membership meeting is held on the 1st Thursday of the Month at 5:30 PM.
In-Person/Virtual/Hybrid: Hybrid. Contact us.
In-Person Meeting location:
Propel School Northside
1805 Buena Vista St., Pittsburgh, PA 15212
(The parking lot and main entrance can be accessed from Irwin Ave near the intersection of N. Charles St. and Irwin Ave.)
Get involved with the council dedicated to ensuring public safety throughout the Northside.
The Northside Public Safety Council meets at Propel School Northside – 1805 Buena Vista St. Pgh PA 15212 on the first Thursday of each month from 5:30-6:30 PM. Attendees include our Zone 1 Commander, Public Safety Director, Zone 1 CRO’s, Housing Authority representatives, Northside community residents and a variety of special guests. Come on out to be part of the discussion about making the Northside a safe place for us all!

jasujazumdinski
Community Alliance of Spring Garden and East Duetschtown
President: Isaac Falvey
Address: 1308 Spring Garden Ave, Pittsburgh Pa 15212
Phone: (412) 228-0376
Email: info@ca-sged.org
Website: www.ca-sged.org
Facebook: www.facebook.com/CASGED412
Meetings: The general membership meeting is held on the 2nd Tuesday of the month at 6:30 PM.
In-Person/Virtual/Hybrid: Hybrid. Contact us.
In-Person Meeting Location: St Michael and All Angels Lutheran Church 1308 Spring Garden Ave, Pgh Pa. 15212.
The Community Alliance of Spring Garden &amp; East Deutschtown is a grassroots community organization dedicated to improving the quality of life for its members by organizing and encouraging efforts to revitalize the residential and commercial districts; by leading and supporting greening and beautification efforts; and by providing or supporting events and programs that promote public safety, volunteerism and community pride.

East Allegheny Community Council
President: Douglas Kamper
Address: 415 East Ohio Street #225, Pittsburgh, PA 15212.
Phone: (412) 321-1204
Email: info@deutschtown.org
Website: deutschtown.org
Facebook: www.facebook.com/Deutschtown
Meetings: The general membership meeting is held on the 2nd Tuesday of the month at 7 PM.
In-Person/Virtual/Hybrid: Virtual. Contact us.
In-Person Meeting Location: N/A
The East Allegheny Community Council (EACC) works to revitalize the Deutschtown National Historic District, support economic development efforts, and foster a sense of community. The mission of EACC is to:

improve the quality of life for residents by encouraging restoration and preservation of our housing stock;
organize and support social, cultural, educational and charitable programs and events; and promote public safety, enforcement of city ordinances, and performance of city services in the neighborhood of East Allegheny, also known as Deutschtown.

jasujazumdinski
Allegheny West Civic Council
President: Bob Griewahn
Address: 806 Western Ave Pgh Pa 15212
Phone: (412) 323-8884
Email: info@alleghenywest.org
Website: alleghenywest.org
Facebook: www.facebook.com/alleghenywest
Twitter: twitter.com/allegheny_west
Instagram: www.instagram.com/AlleghenyWest_pgh
Meetings: The general membership meeting is held on the 2nd Tuesday of the month at 7:30 PM.
In-Person/Virtual/Hybrid: Hybrid. Contact us.
In-Person Meeting Location: Calvary United Methodist Church 971 Beech Ave Pgh Pa 15233.
The Allegheny West Civic Council was incorporated in 1971 to:

coordinate neighborhood services and eliminate duplicate or unnecessary activities
identify and make every effort to meet unmet needs;
promote public understanding of our needs and resources;
serve as a channel for the members to express our thoughts and needs to the larger communities of city, state &amp; nation and serve as an access channel to the people of the neighborhood for other institutions;
receive and administer funds exclusively for scientific, education and charitable purposes;
improve the economic and social climate of the community by publicizing our needs and goals and assuring that vital services, programs and resources are made available to the community.

Any resident, property owner, business owner or organization is eligible to become a voting member in the Civic Council. More information about membership can be found on our website.

jasujazumdinski
Summer Hill Citizens Committee
President: Jake George
Phone: (724) 664-3045
Email: jlg8807@gmail
Facebook: www.facebook.com/summerhillcitizens
Meetings: The general membership meeting is held on the 3rd Tuesday of the month at 6 PM.
In-Person/Virtual/Hybrid: TBD. Contact Us
In-Person Meeting Location: TBD
The Summer Hill Citizens Committee (SHCC) is the official neighborhood group representing citizens of Pittsburgh’s upper North Side neighborhood of Summer Hill. Contact us through our Facebook page or via email for more information.

Brighton Heights Citizens Federation
President: Joseph Glassbrenner
Address: PO Box 99602 Pittsburgh PA 15233
Phone: (412) 690-0918
Email: BHCFpgh@gmail.com
Website: www.brightonheights.org
Facebook: www.facebook.com/brightonheights
Twitter: twitter.com/bhcfpgh
Meetings: The general membership meeting is held on the 2nd Thursday of the month at 7 PM.
In-Person/Virtual/Hybrid: In-person only.
In Person Meeting Location: John Morrow Elementary School 3547 Massachusetts Ave Pgh, Pa 15212.
Since its initial inception as a non-profit organization on February 28th, 1967, the Brighton Heights Citizens Federation has been involved in a multitude of activities, events, and projects in the community. The purpose of the Federation is to promote and encourage the advancement of neighborhood improvements and a greater sense of community. This is accomplished by uniting the citizens of the community, its organizations, and institutions to work hand in hand to enhance the health, safety, welfare, property, and wellbeing of the community.
To accomplish the above objectives, the Federation sponsors a number of annual neighborhood events such as the annual flower plantings, the Halloween Parade, a Christmas tree lighting in Legion Park, a house tour, and a community day at PNC Park.

jasujazumdinski
Troy Hill Citizens Inc.
President: Abby Vanim
Address: 1619 Lowrie St Pgh Pa 15212
Email: troyhillpittsburgh@gmail.com
Website: www.ourfuturehilltop.org
Meetings: The general membership meeting is held on the 2nd Wednesday of the month at 7 PM.
In-Person/Virtual/Hybrid: Hybrid. Contact us.
In-Person Meeting Location: 1902 Sundeman St Pgh Pa 15212
Troy Hill Citizens (THC) is a non-profit community development organization that was established in 1971 to foster programs of a civic and social nature and to improve the quality of life for all Troy Hill residents. The organization strives to find creative and sustainable ways to enhance and revitalize the neighborhood. To find out more about our organization and ways to get involved, please visit our website.

Observatory Hill Inc.
President: Jeffrey Wagner
Address: PO Box 100247 Pgh, PA 15233
Phone: (412) 736-2489
Email: ohipgh@gmail.com
Website: www.observatoryhill.net
Facebook: www.facebook.com/observatoryhillinc
Twitter: twitter.com/ohipgh
LinkedIn: www.linkedin.com/in/observatory-hill-inc-660294114
Meetings: The general membership meeting is held on the 3rd Wednesday of the month.
In Person/Virtual/Hybrid: Virtual. TBD. Contact us.
Observatory Hill, Inc. is a non-profit community based organization committed to improving the quality of life for all residents through the preservation or restoration of homes and buildings and conservation of community resources.
Incorporated as a 501 (c) (3) organization on June 18, 1982, the group and the community have worked together to preserve and revitalize the neighborhood in a number of important activities:
Commercial Revitalization, Housing Preservation, increasing access to mortgage products, attracting new homeowners, and removing key blighted buildings. A primary goal of the organization is to foster home ownership and the return of multi-unit homes to their original single-family status.
Riverview Park, Preservation and Improvement, including planting annuals in three large beds near the Riverview Avenue entrance and the support of The Friends of Riverview Park committee.
Neighborhood Promotion and Marketing, including the Observatory Hill House Tour, and the OHI Journal, our association newsletter, OHI website and OHI Facebook page.

jasujazumdinski
Brightwood/Marshall-Shadeland Civic Group
President: Angel Gober
Address: P.O. Box 100001 Pgh Pa 15233
Email: brightwoodcivic@gmail.com
Website: www.brightwoodcivic.org
Facebook: www.facebook.com/BrightwoodCivicGroup
Meetings: The general membership meeting is held on the 1st Tuesday of the month at 6 PM.
In Person/Virtual/Hybrid: Virtual. Contact us.
Brightwood is a residential neighborhood on the Northside of Pittsburgh consisting of affordably priced homes, occupied by a diverse group of residents. We host monthly membership meetings and special events throughout the year. Contact us to learn how you can get involved and help us improve our community.

Spring Hill Civic League
President: Ben Soltesz
Address: P.O. Box 100167 Pgh, Pa 15233
Phone: (412) 759-6680
Email: contact@shcl.org
Website: shcl.org
Facebook: www.facebook.com/pages/Spring-Hill-Civic-League/244133979010573
Meetings: The general membership meetings are held on the 1st Monday of the month at 6 PM.
In-Person/Virtual/Hybrid: Hybrid. Contact Us
In-Person Meeting Location: TBD. Contact Us
Spring Hill was named for its hilly topography, panoramic view of the city, and natural underground springs. Spring Hill is located north of downtown Pittsburgh. It is adjacent to Interstates 279, 579, &amp; Route 28, and it is five minutes from downtown Pittsburgh. It’s out-of-the way location, easy access to highways, low crime rate, abundant greenery, and value of tradition all translate into a desirable area for families to raise their children and for elderly to live safely. This community is nestled on the hilltop; it is one of the North side’s best-kept secrets. Its German ethnic roots have evolved to neighbors of diverse races, economics, and social status, which make Spring Hill a truly unique community. Contact us to learn how to get involved.

jasujazumdinski
Fineview Citizens Council
President: Diondre Johnson
Address: P.O. Box 6602 Pgh Pa 15212
Phone: (412) 206-9402
Email: fineviewpgh@gmail.com
Website: fineviewpgh.org
Facebook: www.facebook.com/FineviewCitizensCouncil
Twitter: www.instagram.com/fineviewcitizens
Instagram: www.instagram.com/fineviewcitizens/?hl=en
Meetings: The general membership meeting is held on the 4th Tuesday of the month at 6:00 PM.
In-Person/Virtual/Hybrid: Hybrid. Contact us.
In-Person Meeting Location: 2601 Norwood Ave, Pgh, Pa 15214
Fineview Citizens Council (FCC) and Perry Hilltop Citizens Council (PHCC) began collaborating in the winter of 2016. This partnership was started in large part by the redevelopment of Allegheny Dwellings. FCC and PHCC realized this development project would have a large impact on our communities and that we did not have the capacity to respond to it, nor did we have a comprehensive community plan to inform the development.
Since that time, our two organizations have done quite a bit of collaborative work. We even raised funding to hire two full-time staff members.
FCC and PHCC are currently in the process of collaborating to produce a joint comprehensive community plan that will inform future neighborhood development and put forward a shared vision for our communities. Contact us to learn how to get involved.

Perry Hilltop Citizen’s Council
President: Dwayne Barker
Phone: (412) 223-7144
Email: perryhilltop@gmail.com
Website: www.perryhilltop.org
Facebook: www.facebook.com/PerryHilltopCitizensCouncil
Twitter: twitter.com/PerryHilltop
Instagram: www.instagram.com/perryhilltopcitizenscouncil
Meetings: The general membership meeting is held on the 4th Tuesday of the month at 6 PM.
In-Person/Virtual/Hybrid: Hybrid. Contact us.
In-Person Meeting Location: 2601 Norwood Ave, Pgh, Pa 15214
Fineview Citizens Council (FCC) and Perry Hilltop Citizens Council (PHCC) began collaborating in the winter of 2016. This partnership was started in large part by the redevelopment of Allegheny Dwellings. FCC and PHCC realized this development project would have a large impact on our communities and that we did not have the capacity to respond to it, nor did we have a comprehensive community plan to inform the development.
Since that time, our two organizations have done quite a bit of collaborative work. We even raised funding to hire two full-time staff members.
FCC and PHCC are currently in the process of collaborating to produce a joint comprehensive community plan that will inform future neighborhood development and put forward a shared vision for our communities. Contact us to learn how to get involved.
jasujazumdinski
Our Community

last updated: 10/01/2025
Back to top
Ready
jasujazumdinski