opens in new tab or window
In This Section
Mayor
City Controller
City Council
Boards, Authorities, Commissions
Legal Services
Jobs
Finance & Budget  - Campaign Finances
Dog Licenses
Fee Schedule
Management & Budget
New Business Registration
Pilot Home Buying Program
Real Estate
Taxes    - Business Tax Compliance Letter
Property Tax Worksheet
Real Estate Tax Certification Letter
Real Estate Taxes
Tax FAQs
Tax Forms
Waiver and Refund Request
Contacts & Information
Property Tax Worksheet
Return to Taxes Finance Page
This sheet is designed to provide you with an estimate of your property tax bill.
The Allegheny County property reassessment will determine the values that will be used to calculate your tax bill ( assessment values can be found online). New tax millage rates have been set for the City, County and School District and tax bills will be mailed to you shortly. The City of Pittsburgh will not receive additional revenue as a result of the Allegheny County reassessment.
The following measures are meant to help you lower your tax bills:
The City's millage rate is 8.06
The Act-50 Homestead Exemption is $15,000
The Act-77 Senior Tax Relief is a 40% reduction on assessment
Property Tax Worksheet
Disclaimer - This website and the figures thereon DO NOT represent actual tax liability or formal tax bills for the City of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh Public Schools, Carnegie Library, or Allegheny County. The purpose of this website is to generate a rough estimate of potential tax liability based on proposed values, millage rates, exemption and abatement rates and amounts, and discount percentages that are all subject to change. No user shall rely on the data generated, given, or extrapolated from this page for tax liability or any other purpose and any user who does so, does it at their own risk. The City of Pittsburgh assumes no liability for the data on or generated by this page and assumes no liability for any user's usage of, or reliance on it.
Finance Fee Calculator
Loading…

City of Pittsburgh: Property Tax Worksheet
This sheet is designed to provide you with an estimate of your property tax bill.