opens in new tab or window
Apply for Historic Review
If you're interested in completing exterior work on a property that's located in a City-designated Historic District, approval by the Historic Review Commission (HRC) is required. Applications require a submission through OneStopPGH, the City's online permitting system. The application review process is called Development Review.
Work which requires Development Review(show below)
Development review is required for:
In-kind repair or restoration of HVAC replacement, fencing replacement, signage replacement, roofing replacement, and painting.
New construction, exterior alterations, additions, and demolition of buildings.
Repair, removal, replacement or alteration of materials, windows, doors, roofing, light fixtures.
Repair, removal, replacement or alteration of HVAC, fencing, walls, gates, non-conforming signage.
Work which does not require Development Review(show below)
Development reviews are not required for:
Interior alterations, unless the interior is designated
Gardening or landscaping
How to Apply Approval Process
How to Apply
Step 1.Review Historic District Guidelines
Prior to submitting your application, review your Historic District Design Guidelines.
Link to Historic Designations and Districts
Step 2.Review the COA Process Guide
Download and review the Certificate of Appropriateness (COA) Process Guide. Review the Application Requirements and required documents on page 2. Incomplete applications cannot be added to a hearing agenda.
See Supporting Documents in the side panel
jasujazumdinski
Step 3.Submit a OneStopPGH application
All project submissions and review comments are organized through your OneStopPGH account and application record number. Upload the required documents to the Permit application. Once submitted to OneStopPGH, staff will review the application for correctness and completeness. Additional information may be required if staff determines the application is incomplete.
Visit OneStopPGH to create an account.
Approval Process
Once a permit application completes the "Completeness Check" review process in OneStopPGH, the application enters into application review. The below steps illustrate the typical process an application takes from submission to a issuing a permit.
Step 1.City Planning review
After Completeness Check is accepted, a Zoning reviewer and Historic Preservation reviewer are assigned to review the application. Historic Preservation staff have been authorized by the Historic Review Commission (HRC) to approve certain kinds of projects over-the-counter and may therefore be able to issue a Certificate of Appropriateness (COA) administratively.
The HRC must review all applications that staff are not able to approve over-the counter. Historic Preservation staff will contact you to schedule a HRC meeting date once the application has been reviewed and determined to be a complete application. Incomplete applications may delay project review and required hearings.
jasujazumdinski
Step 2. Historic Review Commission Briefing
If applicable based on application type. For projects proposing demolition and / or new construction, City Planning recommends a briefing. Public comment is not taken during a briefing and no Commission decision is issued.
Step 3. Development Activities Meeting
If the proposed location is within a Registered Community Organization, a Development Activities Meeting (DAM) is required 30 days before the Historic Review Commission (HRC) meeting date. City Planning staff will contact you with DAM scheduling information.
Link to Who's My RCO page.
Step 4. Zoning Board of Adjustment Meeting
If a proposed project requires approval by the ZBA, the ZBA meeting and decision must be issued prior to scheduling a HRC meeting date.
Step 5.Historic Review Commission Public Meeting
The HRC meets on the first Wednesday of each month. Meetings start at 1:00 pm and are hybrid. Agendas for HRC meetings are posted 10 days prior to the meeting date. The Commission will vote to approve, postpone, or deny the proposed application.
See this link for additional information on the HRC.
See this link for City Planning's Online Meeting Calendar.
Step 6.After Historic Review Commission
If the Commission approves the application, City Planning staff will complete reviews and issue the COA.
If the Commission postpones the application, staff will work with the applicant to revise the project for future HRC review.
If the Commission denies an application, the applicant may revise the project for future HRC review or appeal to the Court of Common Pleas.
Press left and right keys to move between tabs. Press down to focus tab content.
jasujazumdinski
Contact Us
Email
historicreview@pittsburghpa.gov
Location
Department of City Planning
412 Boulevard of the Allies, Suite 201
15219
View Map
Supporting Documents
Certificate of Appropriateness Guide(PDF, 319KB)
Certificate of Economic Hardship(PDF, 295KB)
OneStopPGH Information
Link to OneStopPGH
Link to Fee Schedule
Additional Information
City Historic Sites and Districts Map
City Historic Sites and Districts List
Preservation Code link
Who's My RCO link
DAM information
Back to top
Ready
jasujazumdinski