opens in new tab or window
In This Section
Trash & Recycling  - Collection Schedule and Newsletter
Curbside Pick Up
Commercial Recycling
Special Event Recycling
Drop-Off Info & Additional Resources    - Recycling Drop-Off Locations
Electronic Waste and Household Hazardous Waste Disposal
Waste Disposal Resources
Christmas Tree Recycling
Zero Waste
Let's Talk Trash Webinar
Anti-Litter and Illegal Dumping
311
A - Z: Frequently Visited
ADA & Disability Rights
Snow Removal
Road Maintenance
Food Programs
Pets & Animals
Community Programming
Immigrant and Refugee Affairs
Tree Resources
Christmas Tree Recycling
Every year, the City of Pittsburgh recycles used Christmas trees into free, natural, and environmentally friendly pine mulch for all City residents. In the 2024/2025 season, we recycled over 2,325 trees!
For more information on how to make your holiday plans more sustainable, check out the PRC's Holiday Greening Guide(PDF, 7MB).
Mulch Pick Up Dates and Location
With the help of the Public Works Bureau of Environmental Services and Forestry Division, the City of Pittsburgh has chipped recycled trees into mulch at the zoo drop-off location.
Users must bring their own buckets, gloves, and shovels. Residents interested in picking up mulch for their spring gardens and other beautification projects can do so at:
The Pittsburgh Zoo Overflow Parking Lot (parking area to the right)
7370 Baker Street, Pittsburgh, PA 15206
Two Saturdays, from dawn until dusk or while supplies last:
Saturday, April 26th
jasujazumdinski
Turn your live Christmas Tree into mulch
By bringing your used Christmas tree to one of our convenient drop-off locations, you'll be recycling it into usable mulch, available for use by al City Residents in Spring! This event will run from December 26th thru January 26th.
Drop-Off Locations include:
Allegheny Center: Sue Murray Swimming Pool Parking Lot, #301 Stockton Avenue
Brighton Heights: Jack Stack Swimming Pool, 600 Brighton Woods Road
Brookline: Brookline Recreation Center, 1400 Oakridge Street
Hazelwood: 40 Melanchton Street, 412-422-6545
Highland Park: Highland Park Zoo, 7370 Baker Street
Homewood North: 6814 Hamilton Avenue, 412-665-3610
Perry North: 300 Kilbuck Road, 412-323-7209
Southside: Southside Riverfront Park Lower Parking Lot
Squirrel Hill South: Prospect Drive Roundabout, Schenley Park
Sheraden: Sheraden Park Parking Lot, Surban Street
West End: 1330 Hassler Street, 412-937-3054
Please remove all decorations, plastic bags, and tree stands. Don't leave your tree at the curb, it will be sent to the landfill.
Girl Scout Tree Recycling
Curbside Pickup Service Fundraiser
January \| Date set by Troop (See below)
Christmas Tree Recycling Registration by Troop
Girl Scout troops in the City of Pittsburgh are organizing our 10th Christmas tree recycling pickup in the neighborhoods of Morningside, Highland Park, Larimer, East Liberty, Friendship, Shadyside, Point Breeze, Point Breeze North, Squirrel Hill North, Squirrel Hill South, and Greenfield. The Girl Scouts will then take the trees to designated drop-off centers. Trees will be mulched and not end up in the landfill. Please use the link below to register in your neighborhood.
Additionally, two BSA Troops will pick up from Stanton Heights, Garfield, and Bloomfield and deliver trees to Garfield to be used for goat food.
To Register For Tree Pick-Up, Please Click On This Link
Register For Christmas Tree Pick-Up Video
last updated: 04/07/2025
Back to top
Ready
jasujazumdinski