Skip to main content
opens in new tab or window
In This Section

Parks
Pools
Events  - Summer Guide
Farmers Markets
Dollar Bank Cinema In The Park
Roving Art Cart
ARTWorks
Concerts
Footraces
Holidays At City-County Building
Pistons in the Park Car Cruise
Pittsburgh Cultural Activities
Summer Soul Line Dancing
Park Facilities
Special Events
Film &amp; Event Management
Park Permits
About Parks

Holidays At City-County Building

MENORAH LIGHTING
DATE &amp; TIME: Thursday, December 26, 2024 at 5 p.m.
PLACE:  City-County Building
Join Mayor Ed Gainey and community leaders in lighting the giant 12-foot Menorah located in front of the City-County Building.  The Menorah serves as a beacon of light, symbolizing freedom and peace for all.  The celebration includes live music and Chanukah refreshments of latkes and donuts.
PITTSBURGH'S OFFICIAL CHRISTMAS TREE
Thank you to Guardian Angels Parish of Natrona Heights, Springdale Campus, for donating the official 2024 holiday tree, a 40-foot Blue Spruce.
Pittsburgh's official Christmas Tree was first erected at the construction site of the City-County Building in 1915.  For more than a century, a beautiful live evergreen (the only live holiday tree Downtown) has graced the front steps of our seat of government.  Visitors enjoy hundreds of larger than life ornaments, including Pittsburgh’s Coat of Arms designed by Wendell August Forge, and 90 distinct ornaments, each bearing the name of Pittsburgh's beloved neighborhoods.  Be sure to spot your favorite!
jasujazumdinski
TREE LIGHTING ON HIGHMARK LIGHT UP NIGHT®
The City of Pittsburgh kicks off the holidays on November 23 at its official tree lighting ceremony presented by Clearview as part of Highmark Light Up Night ®. Festivities along Grant Street include live music, light show, fireworks, food trucks, crafts, games, and a one-of-a-kind gingerbread house display.
DATE:  Saturday, November 23, 2024 from 4 - 7 p.m.
PLACE:  City-County Building portico and along Grant Street, Downtown Pittsburgh

Previous column Next column
| Time | Event |
| --- | --- |
| 4 - 4:45 pm | Salvation Army New York Staff Band |
| 5 - 5:20 pm | Tree Lighting, Fireworks, &amp; Light Show |
| 5:20 pm | Louie Castle |
| 6:30 pm | Light Show |
22nd ANNUAL GINGERBREAD DISPLAY
For the 22nd year, the people of Pittsburgh and surrounding communities are invited to build edible houses as the competition returns to an in-person display in the grand lobby of the City-County Building!
CLICK HERE to learn more about the Gingerbread Competition.
Presenting Partner

Media Partners

last updated: 04/17/2025
Back to top
Ready
jasujazumdinski