opens in new tab or window
In This Section
City Planning
Mobility and Infrastructure
Permits, Licenses, and Inspections
Digital Equity In Pittsburgh
Small Business Resources
Public Works
Zoning  - Zoning FAQ
Planning Application and Process
Planning Reviews, Public Notices and Public Hearings    - Site Plan Review
Site Plan Requirements
Certificate of Occupancy
Administrator Exception
Design Review
Environmental Review
Construction Management Plans
Housing
Geographic Information Systems, Mapping & Open Data
Procurement
PGH Lab
Sustainability
Geotechnical Reports
What is a geotechnical report?(show below)
Geotechnical reports indicate whether a particular site is suitable for the construction of a permanent or temporary structure. Geotechnical reports assess the safety of the proposed construction by indicating whether the soil and other geological conditions of the site will provide the necessary support for the development. A geotechnical report may be required before the construction of buildings, walls, roads and other structures.
Please note: As part of the geotechnical report, a subsurface investigation is required, which will include borings on the site, and may require heavy equipment on the site.
When is a geotechnical report required?(show below)
The applicant must submit a geotechnical report in the three situations described below.
Landslide-Prone Overlay (Zoning Code ยง906.04):
Any application for new construction or for a multi-story addition, must submit a full geotechnical report
Any application for a parking pad, deck, porch, stoop, balcony, retaining wall or one story addition, must submit evidence from a certified geotechnical professional that the proposal will not increase the susceptibility of landslides on the subject property or surrounding property
Undermined Area Overlay (Zoning Code ยง906.5):
Any application that includes new construction or an enlargement of an existing structure in the Undermined Overlay must submit a Coal Status Report with maps from the State Bureau of Mines. The Coal Status Report may be requested for a specific property address or parcel ID by emailing ep-csr@pa.gov or calling 724-769-1100
For single family dwellings, a geotechnical report is required only if the Coal Status Report shows less than 100 ft of overburden
For all other new construction or enlargement of existing structures, a geotechnical report is required regardless of the amount of overburden
Steep Slopes (Zoning Code ยง915.02.A.1):
Cut or filled slopes shall not exceed 25% unless the applicant submits a geotechnical report that certifies the safety and suitability of such slopes
When is a geotechnical report not required?(show below)
Typically if you have a smaller project with little or no impact to the soils, a geotechnical report may not be needed. This is not an exhaustive list, but it provides examples of construction in which a geotechnical report may not be required:
Installation of fences no taller than 6 feet
Project has no impact to the site (i.e. interior renovations, etc.)
Deck renovation with no change to the posts or structure
Sheds less than 120 sq ft
Exterior repair of an existing structure when there is no alteration to the building envelop
If any of the above items will change the slope or are located near the edge of the slope, the applicant will need to submit evidence from a certified geotechnical professional that the proposal can be safely accomplished.
If you have an existing approved geotechnical report and your proposed project is not increasing the impact to the soil and other geological conditions, the existing, approved geotechnical report may be valid for the new proposal.
What is required in the geotechnical report?(show below)
The report will include written and graphic summary of the subsurface investigation, conclusions or assessment from that investigation, and recommendations for the proposed project. The following items must be included in all geotechnical reports:
Field Investigation with site plan
Subsurface Investigation
Note: These subsurface investigation should detail any findings and should include a map that illustrates the investigation. Include site photos if possible.
Recommendations for the project/scope of work
Site plan with landslide prone area overlay, undermined area overlay, and steep slope contours shown (as applicable)
Demolition plan (as applicable)
Grading plan
Professional signature and sealed with liability insurance information
Who can create a geotechnical report?(show below)
Professionals with credentials and who carry liability insurance (individually or as a professional group) may produce a geotechnical report. These include:
Soil Engineers
Professional Civil Engineers
Geotechnical Engineers
Professional or Engineering Geologists
Who reviews the geotechnical report?(show below)
Geotechnical reports are reviewed by the Department of City Planning and by the Department of Permits, Licenses, and Inspections.
Planning staff will evaluate it for completeness during the site plan review. Department of Permits, Licenses and Inspections staff will review it with the building permit(s) to ensure that the recommendations and assessments are consistent with the drawings submitted.
jasujazumdinski
Contact Us
For more information about Geotechnical Reports, please contact Gregory Miller, Senior Environmental Planner, at Gregory.Miller@pittsburghpa.gov.
For assistance in determining if your project needs a Geotechnical Report, please contact the Division of Zoning and Development Review at zoning@pittsburghpa.gov or 412-255-2241.
last updated: 04/24/2025
Back to top
Ready
jasujazumdinski