Skip to main content
opens in new tab or window
In This Section

City Planning
Mobility and Infrastructure
Permits, Licenses, and Inspections  - Applications &amp; Forms
OneStopPGH
Permits
Licenses    - Business Licenses
Contractor Licenses
Trade Licenses

Bulletins
Community Resources
Code Enforcement
Condemned Buildings
PLI Fees
Building Codes
Appeals
PLI Contacts
Announcements
Registrations
Digital Equity In Pittsburgh
Small Business Resources
Public Works
Zoning
Geographic Information Systems, Mapping &amp; Open Data
Procurement
PGH Lab
Sustainability

One-Day Solicitation (Tag Day) License
The City of Pittsburgh requires any organization which solicits charitable funds from the general public in the City by means of personal representatives or collectors must register with the Department of Permits, Licenses, and Inspections.
Application Process

Prepare Required Documents
Check below for a list of requirements
For more detailed info, Check out the Rules and Regulations(PDF, 626KB) and City Code
Complete Application
Fill out the Tag Day License Application(PDF, 79KB).
Application must be notarized.
Submit Documents and Payment
Check the cost of your license application fee here: Current Fee Schedule
Check or money order made payable to Treasurer, City of Pittsburgh for License Fee.
Documents and payment must be submitted physically. To coordinate submission contact pliapptech@pittsburghpa.gov

License Requirements

Completed tag day application. Application must be notarized
List of names and residence addresses of each officer, board member, or director of the organization holding the event
List of names and residence addresses of each individual who will be soliciting donations during the event
Annual financial statement for the organization soliciting donations (statement should include both income and expenditures for the organization)
Locations or areas of solicitation. Cross-streets and landmarks preferred.

Please note that Tag Day applications are subject to City of Pittsburgh Police approval and are thus not bound to PLI's three business day license processing timeline. Applications should be submitted well in advance of the planned event.
jasujazumdinski
Resources
Looking for additional info or clarification on your license requirements?
Check out the Rules and Regulations(PDF, 626KB)
last updated: 04/24/2025
Back to top
Ready
jasujazumdinski