Skip to main content
opens in new tab or window
Sustainability
Sustainability and resilience empowers all Pittsburghers to address the climate crisis through reducing pollution, improving access to food, and integrating the environment into their daily decisions. As a division, we champion preventative resilience strategies in partner operations in order to mitigate stressors facing the City and prepare for future shocks. We also advise City officials, departments and partners to enable an enduring and adaptable city through holistic decision making.
Pittsburgh State of Sustainability
The State of Sustainability is an annual review of the performance of the Sustainability &amp; Resilience division.
Read the reports:

2019-2020 Report(PDF, 3MB)
2017-2018 Report(PDF, 18MB)
2016-2017 Report(PDF, 24MB)
2014-2015 Report(PDF, 1MB)

Resources

Climate Action Plan\
\
Climate Action Plan 3.0 lays out strategies through which Pittsburgh can reduce greenhouse gas emissions within city limits and within City operations. This will lessen Pittsburgh’s contribution to global climate change.
Resilient Pittsburgh\
\
Why does Pittsburgh need resilience? Air quality issues. Inequality. Public health challenges. Flash floods. Infrastructure failure. Extreme weather. These are just a few of the chronic stressors and acute shocks that challenge and threaten Pittsburgh.
Food Systems\
\
In a city where more than 1 in 5 residents face food insecurity—more than twice the national average—there is a critical need for the City of Pittsburgh to intervene through leadership and collaboration. Tackling this issue will require input from a variety of actors, such as the City, nonprofits, city agents, but most importantly, the local Pittsburgh community.
Sustainability &amp; Resilience Library\
\
Access resources for residents, businesses, advocates, and researchers.
Building Benchmarking Compliance\
\
Building benchmarking is measuring the energy and water use, and using that data to compare performance over time as well as compare to similar buildings.
Affiliations &amp; Memberships\
\
The City of Pittsburgh’s sustainability and resilience efforts are affiliated with organizations and challenges listed here.
Environmental Planning and Review\
\
Environmental Planning and Review addresses both regulatory review and proactive advancement of projects.
last updated: 04/24/2025
Back to top
Ready
jasujazumdinski