opens in new tab or window
In This Section
Police  - Police Zones
Police Officer Recruitment
File a Police Report
Submit a Tip
Submit a Silent Complaint
Compliment an Officer
Police Data Portal
Branches
About Police
Fire
Animal Care & Control
Emergency Medical Services
Office of Community Health and Safety
Alerts
Public Safety
File a Police Report
Ways to File a Police Report
Call 911 from within the City of Pittsburgh limits. If the incident occurred within the City of Pittsburgh, you must call from within the City of Pittsburgh limits for an officer to be dispatched to you. When you call, you may be routed to a civilian member of the Telephone Reporting Unit (TRU) who will assist you.
You can visit any City of Pittsburgh police station and file a report in person. All City of Pittsburgh police stations are open 24/7, even on holidays. Bring your ID to confirm your identity. Depending on the incident, providing additional information like pictures, video, or documents is helpful. If you are not sure what documents are needed to file a report, call ahead. You can visit the list of police zones, addresses, and phone numbers.
Note: Filing a police report with the City of Pittsburgh Bureau of Police cannot be done online.
jasujazumdinski
How to Obtain a Copy of a Police Report
The Pittsburgh Bureau of Police Central Records and Reporting Unit (CRRU) is open Monday – Friday, 8 a.m. – 3:30 p.m. The address is 660 First Avenue, 3rd floor, Pittsburgh, PA 15219. All Police Reports are $15 - check, money order, or credit card. You can request a report in person or through the mail. If requesting a report through the mail, make sure you include what type of incident, a report number, a photo copy of your ID, and a self-addressed stamped envelope. The phone number is 412-255-2920 if you'd like to call ahead or if you have any additional questions.
Have you experienced discrimination on the basis of your sexuality or gender identity?
Contact the Pittsburgh Police Department's LGBTQIA+ Liaison Commander Eric Baker: eric.baker@pittsburghpa.gov
last updated: 05/29/2025
Back to top
Ready
jasujazumdinski