opens in new tab or window
In This Section
City Planning
Mobility and Infrastructure
Permits, Licenses, and Inspections
Digital Equity In Pittsburgh
Small Business Resources
Public Works
Zoning
Geographic Information Systems, Mapping & Open Data
Procurement
PGH Lab
Sustainability  - Climate Action Plan
Resilient Pittsburgh
Food Systems
Sustainability & Resilience Library
Building Benchmarking Compliance
Affiliations & Memberships
Environmental Planning and Review
Resilient Pittsburgh
Why does Pittsburgh need resilience?
Air quality issues. Inequality. Public health challenges. Flash floods. Infrastructure failure. Extreme weather.
There are just a few of the chronic stressors and acute shocks that challenge and threaten Pittsburgh. Though Pittsburgh has made significant progress in improving environmental stewardship and transitioning from a city in decline to a thriving hub of innovation, technology, education and medicine, we recognize there is still a need for focused, inclusive efforts to ensure all Pittsburgh residents and visitors live well and succeed.
In 2014, the City of Pittsburgh joined the 100 Resilient Cities Network, powered by the Rockefeller Foundation, and with the support of the RAND Corporation, has since engaged with more than 2,000 Pittsburghers to understand the City's resilience challenges and develop analyses, reports and actions to address them.
Pittsburgh's Preliminary Resilience Assessment(PDF, 28MB)
jasujazumdinski
Pittsburgh Equity Indicators
The City of Pittsburgh began the Pittsburgh Equity Indicators project in 2017 to assess annual progress toward equitable opportunities and outcomes for Pittsburghers of all races, genders and incomes, and to inform the City's investment decisions. Support by funding and guidance from the City University of New York Institute for State and Local Governance, the research team led by the RAND Corporation developed a framework and associated indicators to measure equality in both outcomes and opportunities in Pittsburgh.
Platform Partners
The City of Pittsburgh received technical support and resources from a variety of organizations and companies to strengthen particular areas of concern including stormwater management, cybersecurity, mobility, air quality, waste and energy production.
These partnerships include:
American Geophysical Union and Thriving Earth Exchange for support in conducting the City's Greenhouse Gas Inventory
Arcadis
Doppelmayr
Fourth Economy Consulting: ONEPGH Investment Prospectus
Impact Infrastructure: Use of AutoCase Software for green infrastructure modeling
Intermedix and University of Pittsburgh Graduate School of Public Health: Scenario planning exercise for major air quality event
Microsoft: Cybersecurity Tabletop Exercise
R20
Siemens
Read the Reports
Pittsburgh Cable Transit Report(PDF, 23MB)
Watershed Resilience Accelerator Program(PDF, 823KB)
Roadmap to Zero Waste(PDF, 603KB)
Pittsburgh City Performance Tool
last updated: 04/24/2025
Back to top
Ready
jasujazumdinski