opens in new tab or window
In This Section
Mayor
City Controller
City Council  - Districts    - Bobby Wilson, District 1
Theresa Kail-Smith, District 2
Bob Charland, District 3
Anthony Coghill, District 4
Barb Warwick, District 5
R. Daniel Lavelle, District 6
Deb Gross, District 7
Erika Strassburger, District 8
Khari Mosley, District 9
Clerk's Office
Neighborhoods & Wards
Legislative Information
Council Budget Office
City Council Contacts
Boards, Authorities, Commissions
Legal Services
Jobs
Finance & Budget
Contacts & Information
Employee Ownership
The Pittsburgh Citywide Task Force on Employee Ownership was formed to bring together stakeholders from local government, state government, economic development groups, nonprofits, businesses, banks, and higher education to promote and help create employee-owned businesses from Employee Stock Ownership Plans (ESOPs) to Employee Owned Business Enterprises in Pennsylvania.
This has the potential to dramatically change the lives of Pittsburghers for the better. And it is already becoming a model for municipalities throughout the nation.
ESOP companies are three to four times more likely to retain staff, less likely to make pay cuts, and more likely to prepare employees for retirement than the standard business model. S Corporation ESOPs provided higher distributions per participant than 401(k) plans.
Businesses with employee ownership often see greater productivity, higher profitability, and increased revenue.
When formed properly, an ESOP transaction preserves the legacy of the business that an owner helped create, while providing tax and financial benefits to the former business owner, the company, and the employees.
Employee ownership keeps jobs in our communities, providing long-term benefits to the local economy.
Please visit the Pittsburgh Citywide Task Force website if you are interested in learning more about employee ownership or if you are wondering if converting to an employee ownership model is viable for your business.
Check out the City Cast Pittsburgh Podcast from September - Pittsburgh Is Ahead of The Curve In Employee-Owned Businesses
Megaphone Embeddable Player
jasujazumdinski
Goals and Objectives
Assessment
Assess the economic landscape in the Council Districts of Pittsburgh to determine the opportunities/challenges for the creation of employee-owners.
Who are the target businesses?
Education
Design a plan for communicating the value and benefit of employee owners to potential individuals and businesses.
How do we share information, get into the neighborhoods?
Toolkit
Create a “Toolkit” that allows interested businesses and individuals to both learn and take steps to convert to employee ownership.
What are the systems and methods we need to compile to give to potential businesses?
Funding Model
Design a funding model for both ESOPs and Co-Ops that makes employee ownership possible and practical.
How do we create a funding model that truly assists?
Legislation
Look at potential legislative opportunities to both promote and enable the growth of employee ownership.
What might the role of government be? What have other municipalities/states accomplished?
Members of the Task Force
William Bailey, Infinite Prosperity
Vipul Bokil, University of Pittsburgh
Charita Bush, KTA-Tator
Lance Chimka, County of Allegheny
Anthony Coghill, Pittsburgh City Council
John Fetterman, State of Pennsylvania
Dr. David Finegold, Chatham University
Bill Flanagan, Allegheny Conference
Stephanie Gagne, City of Pittsburgh
Ron Gaydos, Pittsburgh Chamber of Cooperatives
Representative Valerie Gaydos, PA State House
Topiltzin Gomez, Honeycomb Credit
Deborah Gross, Pittsburgh City Council
Dr. Jungook Kim, Chatham University
Representative Sara Innamorato, PA State House
Julie Lane, PNC Bank
Todd Leverette, Democracy at Work Institute
Tom Link, Urban Redevelopment Authority
Emalie Martzall, PaCEO
Kevin McPhillips, PaCEO, Co-Chair
Bhavini Patel, County of Allegheny
Jake Pawlak, City of Pittsburgh
Anita Prizio, Steel Valley Authority/Allegheny Council
Jennifer Harrison, Office of Rep. Valerie Gaydos
Dawn Seckler, Bridgeway Capital
John Seiffer, CEO Bootcamp
John Stakeley, Chatham University
Erika Strassburger, Pittsburgh City Council, Co-Chair
Mike Vidra, Tech Met, Inc.
Dr. Trevor Young-Hyman, University of Pittsburgh
jasujazumdinski
Additional Information
Read about the first meeting!
Visit the Pennsylvania Center for Employee Ownership (PaCEO) website for more information on the PaCEO's work throughout the region.
last updated: 04/17/2025
Back to top
Ready
jasujazumdinski