Skip to main content
opens in new tab or window
R. Daniel Lavelle, District 6
Council President

Telephone412-255-2134

Introduction
The Office of Council President R. Daniel Lavelle welcomes you to District 6. We are proud to serve a diverse coalition of neighborhoods that includes Downtown, Pittsburgh's Business District; Uptown, home of the Eco-Innovation District; the Hill District, home to Pittsburgh's rich cultural and arts legacy; parts of West and South Oakland; and the historic Northside. Our goal is to act as advocates and speak for the constituency that comprises our district, and to the Greater City of Pittsburgh as a whole.
Our Neighborhoods
Perry Hilltop(show below)
Perry Hilltop is a diverse, close-knit community, located on the Northside of Pittsburgh. Perry Hilltop features spectacular views of Downtown Pittsburgh from its rows of architecturally interesting homes and buildings. With access to Interstate 279 and the Ohio River Boulevard (Route 65), residents are only minutes from downtown attractions and McKnight Road shopping. The Riverview Park woodlands, just minutes away, have more miles of hiking trails than the other three Pittsburgh regional parks.
The Hill(show below)
The Hill District, once known as the “Crossroads of the World” is a collection of neighborhoods that border Downtown Pittsburgh, Polish Hill, Uptown and Oakland. In its former heyday it was the spot for a vibrant nightlife and was a mecca of the Jazz scene in Pittsburgh catering to African-American luminaries such as Duke Ellington, Ella Fitzgerald, August Wilson and Lena Horne. This historic neighborhood is beginning to experience an economic renaissance from the blight and devastation that occurred as a result of the struggle for civil rights and is poised to return as a beacon of cultural enlightenment in Pittsburgh.
Marshall-Shadeland(show below)
Once known as Woods Run after early settler John Ross, Marshall-Shadeland is a largely residential neighborhood located in the Northside. Its features include the beautiful Riverview Park, Highwood Cemetery and Uniondale Cemetery.
Uptown(show below)
The Uptown neighborhood is located between the two largest economic activity centers in the city: Oakland and Downtown Pittsburgh. Uptown is the 1.5 mile stretch that comprises an eclectic mix of old time residents, university students, artists, tech startups, non-profits and wholesale companies including Duquesne University, UPMC Mercy Hospital, and PPG Paints Arena. It is this versatility which has ensured the stability and recent growth of the Uptown community as a prime location for investment and future development.
Downtown(show below)
Downtown is the urban center of the City of Pittsburgh; also known as the Golden Triangle and the Central Business District, it is located where the Allegheny and Monongahela rivers meet to become the Ohio River at Point State Park. Point State Park, at the tip of the Golden Triangle, offers a stunning panorama of the 3 rivers and its surrounding hillsides. In recent years Downtown has witnessed a marked rise in its residential community. Downtown has a smorgasbord of amenities for almost everyone’s pleasure including restaurants, night spots, and numerous theaters in the Cultural District.
The North Shore(show below)
Encompassing the stretch of land to the north of the Allegheny River, the North Shore is home to the City’s professional football and baseball stadiums, Acrisure Stadium and PNC Park. Other attractions include the Carnegie Science Center, the Andy Warhol Museum, and the riverbank promenade which offers pedestrians a leisurely stroll with beautiful views of the river, the Point and Downtown Pittsburgh.
Manchester(show below)
Located in the Northside, the historic neighborhood of Manchester is home to some of the most unique architecture in the City of Pittsburgh. As one of the City’s oldest neighborhoods named after its English counterpart, It is exclusively residential, with late Victorian homes lining its charming red brick sidewalks and tree line streets.
California-Kirkbride(show below)
Originally developed alongside Manchester between 1870 and 1900, California-Kirkbride in the Northside is a neighborhood that has experienced a renaissance in the recent decade. It used to be home to tanneries, slaughterhouses and a local rail yard, and is now primarily a residential neighborhood with historic rowhomes and new housing developments.

Features
Councilman R. Daniel Lavelle
Resources
Contacts
District 6 Feedback
District 6 In the News
Redevelopment of the Robert E. Williams Shelter
last updated: 09/01/2025
Back to top
Ready
jasujazumdinski