Skip to main content
opens in new tab or window
In This Section

Mayor
City Controller
City Council
Boards, Authorities, Commissions
Legal Services  - Department of Law    - Core Services
Filing a Claim with Law
Right to Know
Acceptance of Service of Process
Historic City Solicitors

Office of Equal Protection
Commission on Human Relations
Ethics Hearing Board
Office of Municipal Investigations
City Ordinances
File a Claim with Law
Right to Know
Jobs
Finance &amp; Budget
Contacts &amp; Information

Making a Request
The City has chosen to use the Standard Request Form promulgated by the Pennsylvania Open Records Office. This form may be downloaded from the website of the Pennsylvania Office of Open Records. A hard-copy form may also be obtained from the City's ORO at the address below.
All Right to Know requests for information ("requests") must be submitted to the Open Records Officer ("ORO") of the City of Pittsburgh:
Emma Cusumano
Open Records Officer
313 City-County Building
414 Grant Street
Pittsburgh, PA 15219
412-255-2015
412-255-2285 Fax
openrecords@pittsburghpa.gov
The City reserves the right to deny access to records if the form set forth above is absent from the request. In completing the form above, only physical addresses are acceptable, not Post Office boxes. The City reserves the right to deny access to records if a requester's physical address is omitted.
There are four ways to request a public record from the City:

In person
By mail
By e-mail
By fax

Requests may be verbal or written. However, if a verbal request is denied by the City, there is no right of appeal.
The Right to Know Law does not require the City to accept requests made by telephone, and the City will refuse to accept requests made by telephone. The Right to Know Law also does notrequire the City to accept anonymous requests, and the City will refuse to accept anonymous requests. For the purpose of this section, an e-mail request which does not contain a proper name or street address will be treated as an anonymous request.
In order to meet the requirements of the Right to Know Law, the request must:

Identify the records requested with sufficient specificity to enable the City to ascertain which records are being requested
Include the name of the requester
Include the address to which the City should direct its response

The request need not state the reason that the records are being requested.
The City has chosen to use the Standard Request Form promulgated by the Pennsylvania Open Records Office. The Standard Request Form(DOC, 276KB) may be downloaded from the City website, or from the website of the Pennsylvania Office of Open Records. A hard-copy form may also be obtained from the City's ORO at the address above.
The City may deny "disruptive requests," which occur when a requester repeatedly requests the same record. However, the requester is not precluded from requesting a different record.

Making a Request
City Response
Fees
Appeals
Policies

last updated: 06/02/2025
Back to top
Ready
jasujazumdinski