Skip to main content
opens in new tab or window
Education
The Ethics Hearing Board regulates conduct under state and city ethics laws.
NOTE: Legal issues can be multi-faceted and you may have rights or obligations beyond the ethics laws within the Ethics Hearing Board's jurisdiction.
Governing Documents

City of Pittsburgh Ethics Code, Chapter 197: Code of Conduct
City of Pittsburgh Ethics Code, Chapter 198: Campaign Finance Regulations
Pennsylvania State Ethics Act
City of Pittsburgh Home Rule Charter

Conflicts of Interest
Conflict violations occur when a public servant misuses their government position to create a private gain to themselves, their family, or to a business/organization/property associated with that public servant or their family.
When there is an intersection of a City official/employee's public role and their (or their family's) private interests, it is possible a conflict may arise. In every instance of a conflict, our public servants are required to disclose the interest, and refrain from participating in any deliberations, decisions, or actions related to the matter -- the Ethics Officer is available to help manage conflicts through our Request Advice service.

Financial Interest in City Contracts
Gifts
Gifts are restricted from “Interested Parties” -- this includes (1) individuals who have or seek a financial relationship with the City; (2) those who are involved in lawsuits against the City or are otherwise adverse legal parties (3) those who have a substantial interest that could be affected by the performance or nonperformance of the public servant’s official duties.

jasujazumdinski
Use of Position
Public Officials and employees are prohibited from using their title or position in connection with any private business from which they receive compensation.

Use of City Resources
Personal use of city resources is prohibited – City facilities, property, staff, equipment, information, and funds must be used solely for official city business.

Post-Employment Restrictions
The ethics code outlines restrictions for separating employees and officials which are in effect for twelve months following the end of employment or service.

Nepotism
Hiring and Appointment: The code prohibits officials and employees from promoting, hiring, supervising, or appointing relatives (or allowing a relative to be under their chain of command) unless a waiver is obtained from the Ethics Hearing Board.

Disclosures
Officials and employees are required to file financial disclosure statements.

Statement of Financial Interests: Due annually by May 1: Each public employee or official must file the SOFI for each year they are employed by the city. The Ethics Officer is available to assist with questions on completing and filing the form.
Statement of Affiliations: Parties entering into contracts with the city valued at $1,000 or more must complete the statement of affiliations.
Disclosure of Interests: Elected officials must complete this form filed with the Controller’s Office each January.

Other disclosures required by the Board include Campaign Finance Disclosures, Gift Disclosures, and Conflict Disclosures

jasujazumdinski
Outside Employment
Honorarium: Payment to public servants for speeches, presentations, appearances, and published works are forbidden unless payments are both (1) legitimate consideration for the value of such services; and (2) undertaken in the public servant’s private professional capacity and not related to the public position.
Prohibited Financial Interests: The city ethics code has a strong ban on any city employees or officials from receiving any direct or indirect financial interest or ownership interest in a city contract. It’s also unlawful to receive a financial interest from any party having dealings with the city. The Board is in charge of interpreting, applying, and administering this strict restriction and can issue waivers upon a review of the specific facts and circumstances involved.
Multiple Government Employment: The Board may soon have the authority to help employees and officials navigate the Charter’s restriction on multiple government employment.

Political Activity
The city law applies restrictions on holding elected office as a public official. Employees are prohibited from engaging in political activity during working hours. It is also unlawful to engage in political activity at any time on or with city property. Additionally, employees cannot be compelled to contribute to a political campaign and are limited to contributing no more than $100/$200 to their employer over a four-year term.

jasujazumdinski
Campaign Finance
The Board regulates candidates, candidate committees, those making independent expenditures, and others, requiring early reporting, and compliance with the contribution limits as set out by the Federal Election Commission.

Running for City Elective Office Pamphlet(PDF, 183KB)

last updated: 09/30/2025
Back to top
Ready
jasujazumdinski