Skip to main content
opens in new tab or window
In This Section

Police
Fire
Animal Care &amp; Control
Emergency Medical Services
Office of Community Health and Safety
Alerts
Public Safety  - Animal Care &amp; Control
Disruptive Properties
Emergency Management and Homeland Security
National Night Out
Nighttime Economy
Office of Film &amp; Event Management
Park Rangers
Violence Prevention    - Office of Community Services &amp; Violence Prevention
Student and Citizen's Police Academy
Safe Passage

Public Safety Contacts

Office of Community Services &amp; Violence Prevention
Community Services and Outreach for the Department of Public Safety are provided by the Safer Together Pittsburgh team. Safer Together Pittsburgh strives in its work of providing outreach and assistance to the residents and businesses of Pittsburgh. They work at building and strengthening relationships, partnerships, and communication among the City’s Public Safety bureaus and the local Public Safety Zone Councils. The Public Safety Zone Councils are open to all residents, young and old, who care and are concerned for the overall public safety of their community. In addition, Safer Together Pittsburgh works with all associated community-based public safety structures, other various public safety bureaus, and also within the neighborhoods they serve. Additionally, Safer Together Pittsburgh examines methods and proven approaches in order to better respond to the needs and service expectations of under-served communities and populations in Pittsburgh.
Not sure what Zone you live in? Find out at our Police Zones Map webpage.
jasujazumdinski
Meet The Staff
Ian Reynolds
STOP the Violence Coordinator
 Ian Reynolds is the STOP the Violence Coordinator for the City of Pittsburgh. In this position, he plans to complete the mission of promoting, assisting and connecting anti-violence activities that are sponsored by the City of Pittsburgh. He works with Group Violence Intervention, the Pittsburgh Bureau of Police Community Resource Officers, and Youth/Adult Diversion programs. Ian has been working in the violence prevention space for more than ten years.
If you have public safety questions, suggestions, or concerns about anti-violence initiatives in the City of Pittsburgh, contact Ian at ian.reynolds@pittsburghpa.gov.

Jess Farrell
Zone 1 Safer Together Coordinator
Jess Farrell is dedicated to making a positive impact on individuals, families, and communities. She is originally from Los Angeles but excited to call Pittsburgh home. In her career, Jess has worked extensively with diverse populations in various settings, including government agencies, non-profit organizations, and educational institutions. She holds a Master of Social Work (MSW) degree from University of Pittsburgh and a Bachelor of Arts degree in Child Development from Mount Saint Mary’s University in Los Angeles.
If you have public safety questions, suggestions, or concerns about Zone 1, contact Jess at jessica.farrell@pittsburghpa.gov.

Kayla Lewis
Zone 2 Safer Together Coordinator
Kayla Lewis, a proud native of Pittsburgh’s Hill District neighborhood, has always been driven to make a difference. Kayla’s educational background in Business Management from Slippery Rock University has provided her with a solid foundation in organizational leadership and management. However, it is her experience in community involvement that truly sets her apart as a dedicated agent of change. As a former resident coordinator in Pittsburgh’s 5 low-income public housing communities, Kayla has worked hard to connect residents with resources, services and opportunities. “I believe that by facilitating open communication and encouraging active participation, this will create an environment where everyone is heard and valued. Together, we can achieve far more than we can alone.”
If you have public safety questions, suggestions, or concerns about Zone 2, contact Kayla at kayla.lewis@pittsburghpa.gov.

jasujazumdinski
Chrisarah Johnson
Zone 3 Safer Together Coordinator
Chrisarah Johnson is a dedicated professional and entrepreneur from Pittsburgh's South Side. She currently serves as the Safer Together Coordinator for Zone 3 in Pittsburgh's Department of Public Safety. With a background in Health Science from Lincoln University and a commitment to community service, she's making a lasting impact in her hometown and beyond.
If you have public safety questions, suggestions, or concerns about Zone 3, contact Chrisarah at chrisarah.johnson@pittsburghpa.gov.

John Tokarski
Zone 4 Senior Safer Together Coordinator
John Tokarski is a lifelong resident of Pittsburgh, having grown up in Bloomfield and now residing with his wife in Hazelwood. He attended Central Catholic High School, Point Park University, and Duquesne University. John coordinates special initiatives for the Department of Public Safety, such as the Citizens Police Academy, the Student Police Academy, and National Night Out. The Citizen and Student Police Academies have provided an opportunity to introduce people to Pittsburgh Police officers, the work they do, and the people behind the badge. National Night Out is an exciting platform that allows Pittsburgh Public Safety to build and celebrate partnerships between its various bureaus and offices. “I thoroughly enjoy the privilege to serve the people of Pittsburgh, particularly the residents and businesses in Zone 4,” says John. “To be able to work with people who have such a genuine interest in building a safe environment for themselves and their neighbors, makes my work such a pleasure.”
If you have public safety questions, suggestions, or concerns about Zone 4, contact John at john.tokarski@pittsburghpa.gov.

jasujazumdinski
Emily Embrey
Zone 5 Safer Together Coordinator
Emily Embrey has worked with the Department of Public Safety since 2017, serving in multiple roles, including the Office of Nighttime Economy. She is currently serving as the Safer Together Coordinator in Zone 5. Emily is certified in Crime Prevention Through Environmental Design (CPTED) and has a passion for teaching others the importance of using the built environment as a mechanism for greater community safety. Emily loves being out in the community building relationships and helping residents solve problems cooperatively.
If you have public safety questions, suggestions, or concerns about Zone 5, contact Emily at emily.embrey@pittsburghpa.gov.

Jacob Davis
Zone 6 Safer Together Coordinator
Jacob Davis is a native of Pittsburgh’s West End. He has a background working the communities through coaching and community service. His career so far has led him to working with government agencies, local municipalities, and educational research with the community. Jacob is dedicated to the betterment of all communities and making a positive impact on those he works with.
If you have public safety questions, suggestions, or concerns about Zone 6, contact Jacob at jacob.davis@pittsburghpa.gov.
last updated: 04/22/2025
Back to top
Ready
jasujazumdinski