opens in new tab or window
In This Section
Parks
Pools
Events  - Summer Guide
Farmers Markets    - Farmers Market Overview
Farmers Market Vendor Registration
Carrick Farmers Market
East End Farmers Market
Northside Farmers Market
Squirrel Hill Farmers Market
Dollar Bank Cinema In The Park
Roving Art Cart
ARTWorks
Concerts
Footraces
Holidays At City-County Building
Pistons in the Park Car Cruise
Pittsburgh Cultural Activities
Summer Soul Line Dancing
Park Facilities
Special Events
Film & Event Management
Park Permits
About Parks
Farmers Market Overview
Farmers Markets are a great way for farmers to sell directly to customers. The CitiParks Farmers Markets run from May/June through November and offer a wide variety of local products at good prices. The Food Bucks program, in partnership with Just Harvest, distributes a $2 voucher for fresh fruits and vegetables for every $5 of SNAP purchases at participating retail locations. For the 2025 Market Season, thanks to a Food Justice Fund Grant, Just Harvest will add another $3 back for fresh fruits and veggies— doubling SNAP benefits at all CitiParks Farmers Markets this year. Since 2020, this program has provided over $300,000 for shoppers to buy fresh produce. For more information visit: justhar vest.org/fresh-access.
The City of Pittsburgh operates 4 Farmers Markets but there are over 25 markets in the City during the season. Buy fresh, buy local! Your support for our local farmers helps to strengthen our regional economy and makes Pittsburgh a more resilient city.
Several factors have led to Pittsburgh being incredibly well-positioned to maximize the impact of its farmers' markets. Pittsburgh is located in the middle of an abundant agricultural region, combined with strong city and regional pride and a robust network of food access organizations, and has allowed for farmers markets in the city to thrive for decades.
jasujazumdinski
Strengthening Pittsburgh's Farmers Markets
In an effort to improve the markets that serve Pittsburgh residents, the City of Pittsburgh hired the Farmers Market Coalition to conduct a comprehensive analysis, titled Strengthening Pittsburgh’s Farmers Markets(PDF, 3MB), of the farmers market system. The goal of the study was to understand the effectiveness of current markets throughout the city and develop a plan for growth that improves equitable access to fresh, affordable and culturally appropriate food, supports our regional food producers, and promotes healthy eating choices for all residents.
Based on findings from these initiatives, the City will be building upon the existing conditions within the farmers market system to provide city services to support market operations; facilitate sustained, structured collaboration between farmers markets and partners; and, position City managed farmers markets as exemplars of best practices. By creating the framework and foundation required to bolster market operations across Pittsburgh, the City will create the conditions required for markets to bring new vendors and customers into the markets.
Check out VISIT PITTSBURGH's Guide to Pittsburgh Farmers Markets HERE .
Back to top
Ready
jasujazumdinski