opens in new tab or window
In This Section
Mayor
City Controller
City Council  - Districts    - Bobby Wilson, District 1
Theresa Kail-Smith, District 2
Bob Charland, District 3
Anthony Coghill, District 4
Barb Warwick, District 5
R. Daniel Lavelle, District 6
Deb Gross, District 7
Erika Strassburger, District 8
Khari Mosley, District 9
Clerk's Office
Neighborhoods & Wards
Legislative Information
Council Budget Office
City Council Contacts
Boards, Authorities, Commissions
Legal Services
Jobs
Finance & Budget
Contacts & Information
Community Organizations
Bellefield Area Citizens Association (BACA)
BACA is a group of residents and business owners working together to improve North Oakland. BACA meets at 7 PM on the 2nd Tuesday of every even-numbered month via Zoom. For more information, visit the Bellefield Area Citizens Association (BACA) Facebook page or email bacaneighbors@gmail.com.
Baum-Centre Planning Forum (BCPF)
BCPF is a group of citizens and business owners who work to improve the quality of life in the Baum-Centre corridor. The BCI meets the 3rd Tuesday of each month at the First United Methodist Church at 6 PM. For more information, please visit https://www.baum-centreplanningforum.org/.
Let's Talk Oakland (OPDC)
Let’s Talk meetings are interactive, resident-focused discussions featuring a monthly theme, presentations from community partners, and an open conversation. Let’s Talk takes place on the third Wednesday of each month at 6:00 p.m. For more information, meeting minutes, recordings, and additional resources, visit www.opdc.org/letstalk.
jasujazumdinski
Squirrel Hill Urban Coalition (SHUC)
The SHUC is a non-profit community group dedicated to preserving, improving, and celebrating the quality of life in the 14th Ward of the City of Pittsburgh. Visit www.shuc.org for more information.
West Oakland’s Fourth (#4) Block Club
West Oakland’s Fourth (#4) Block Club meets on the second Thursday of every month at Friendship Community Church. For more information, contact Carol C. at unspeakablejoy13@comcast.net.
Zone 4 Public Safety Council
Zone 4 PSC meetings allow residents and public safety officers a chance to discuss health and safety concerns, problems, and solutions within Zone 4. Meetings are held on the third Thursday of each month at 6 PM at the Jewish Community Center. For more information, email pghzone4publicsafetycouncil@gmail.com or visit https://www.facebook.com/Zone4PublicSafety/.
last updated: 08/25/2025
Back to top
Ready
jasujazumdinski