opens in new tab or window
In This Section
City Planning  - About City Planning
City Planning Meeting Calendar
City Planning Public Notices
Commissions and Boards
Historic Preservation Program
Public Art Program
Neighborhood Planning
Master & Neighborhood Plans
City Planning Projects    - Riverbank Conditions Assessment and Best Practices Study
Broadway Avenue Public Realm Project
Hays Woods
Pittsburgh’s Riverfront Zoning
City Planning Programs
Development Review Process Guides
Mobility and Infrastructure
Permits, Licenses, and Inspections
Digital Equity In Pittsburgh
Small Business Resources
Public Works
Zoning
Geographic Information Systems, Mapping & Open Data
Procurement
PGH Lab
Sustainability
Project Team
The Riverfront Zoning Amendment process was led by the City of Pittsburgh’s Department of City Planning, and advised by a Core Committee. The Core Committee included representatives from pertinent community organizations, partners such as Riverlife and PWSA, industrial entities, developers, zoning staff, and others with interests along the riverfront. The City also engaged a consultant team, led by:
Camiros is an urban planning firm providing a full range of services in the areas of zoning, planning, urban design, and landscape architecture. The firm works nationally with a diverse mix of communities ranging from small towns to large metropolitan areas and counties, including: New Orleans, Louisiana; Oklahoma City, Oklahoma; Baltimore, Maryland; Tredyffrin Township, Pennsylvania; Providence, Rhode Island; Clark County (Las Vegas), Nevada; Norfolk, Virginia; Salt Lake City and Salt Lake County, Utah; Phoenix and Scottsdale, Arizona; Minneapolis, Duluth, and St. Cloud, Minnesota; and numerous Illinois communities.
Camiros was joined by:
Econsult Solutions, Inc. (ESI) provides businesses and public policy makers with economic consulting services in urban economics, real estate economics, transportation, public infrastructure, development, public policy and finance, community and neighborhood development, planning, and litigation support. ESI has the capability to engage in projects of any size, from comprehensive long-term studies involving complicated economic arguments and extensive data analysis, to short-term advisory support.
Mongalo-Winston Consulting offers services ranging from physical design (urban design and planning), to decision making through collaboration and thoughtful public engagement, and assistance on implementation and approvals. Ivette Mongalo-Winston specializes in consensus driven community engagement, public outreach and facilitation, and master planning.
last updated: 04/23/2025
Back to top
Ready
jasujazumdinski