Skip to main content
opens in new tab or window
In This Section

City Planning
Mobility and Infrastructure
Permits, Licenses, and Inspections  - Applications &amp; Forms
OneStopPGH
Permits
Licenses
Bulletins
Community Resources
Code Enforcement
Condemned Buildings
PLI Fees
Building Codes
Appeals    - Board of Appeals
Board of License and Inspection Review

PLI Contacts
Announcements
Registrations
Digital Equity In Pittsburgh
Small Business Resources
Public Works
Zoning
Geographic Information Systems, Mapping &amp; Open Data
Procurement
PGH Lab
Sustainability

Board of License and Inspection Review
August LIR Canceled - the next LIR Hearing will be held September 10th, 2025 at 9:30am. Attendance can be online or in person.
To attend via Zoom: Register with Zoom
To attend in person: Meeting will be held at 412 Boulevard of the Allies - Basement Conference Room
LIR Hearing Schedule for 2025(PDF, 103KB)
PURPOSE
The purpose of the Board of License and Inspection Review ("LIR Board") is to ensure independent oversight to the license and property maintenance inspection determinations reached by the License Officer and Code Officials of the City of Pittsburgh Department of Permits, Licenses and Inspections ("PLI").
The LIR Board adjudicates appeals of orders, decisions or determinations related to Title VII, Business Licensing, and Title X, Building, Chapter 1004, International Property Maintenance Code ("IPMC"), of the Pittsburgh City Code. After hearing the appeal, the LIR Board will affirm, modify, reverse, vacate, or revoke the notice, order, or action from which an appeal is taken.

Click here to read and download the LIR Board By Laws.
Click here to read and download the LIR Board Rules and Regulations.
Click on the links in the Menu on the right side of this page to read about the LIR Board members, meeting schedule, agendas, and minutes.

HOW TO FILE AN APPEAL

All appeal applications to the LIR must be made electronically through the online OneStopPGH system.

Customers may reach out to pliapptech@pittsburghpa.gov for general permit and license application assistance.

After the application is processed, if it has been properly and timely filed, PLI will schedule an appeal hearing with the Board.
At least seven (7) days prior to the hearing date, PLI will email a notice of the scheduled hearing, including the date and location of the hearing, to the email provided to PLI on the appeal application.
At the hearing, the person who filed the appeal (the Appellant) is responsible for bringing their witnesses and providing copies of all materials, documents, and evidence to the Board. The Appellant should bring enough copies of those things for all of the Board members and the opposing side (PLI) to view, as well as copies to be kept as part of the hearing record.*

*Hearings are currently held virtually. Materials must be provided via Zoom.
jasujazumdinski
LIR Board Members, Meeting Schedule, Agendas, and Minutes
LIR Members
LIR Meetings &amp; Minutes
last updated: 08/04/2025
Back to top
Ready
jasujazumdinski