Skip to main content
opens in new tab or window
Councilman Wilson Passes Legislation to Reduce Minimum Lot Sizes
Published on May 06, 2025

Pittsburgh, PA (Tuesday, May 6, 2025)--In a significant step to address the current housing challenges in the City of Pittsburgh, Councilman Bobby Wilson (District 1) passed legislation today that reduces minimum lot size requirements to build in residential zoned districts. Based on the 2022 Housing Needs Assessment, the Department of City Planning (DCP) identified reducing minimum lot sizes as one of the various reforms needed to increase the City’s housing stock.
Minimum lot size is the smallest lot area permitted for a development in a residential zoning district. Minimum lot size per unit is the minimum lot area needed for the development of a residential unit and determines the level of density permitted.
While there was a broader package proposed by the DCP—which also includes Inclusionary Zoning (IZ), Accessory Dwelling Units (ADUs), Transit-Oriented Development (TOD), and Parking Reform—the minimum lot size reduction was advanced independently to overcome delays in Council approval.
“With this legislation now passed, Pittsburgh is taking a bold and necessary step to modernize outdated zoning codes, lower construction barriers, and open the door to more affordable and diverse housing options,” said Councilman Wilson. “This ordinance promotes responsible growth while preserving neighborhood character.”
In very low-density neighborhoods, such as Point Breeze, Shadyside, the minimum lot size required to build would decrease from 8,000 square feet to 6,000 square feet. In low-density neighborhoods, such as Highland Park, Upper Lawrenceville, the minimum lot size would decrease from 5,000 square feet to 3,000 square feet. In moderate-density neighborhoods, such as Beechview, Brighton Heights, the minimum lot size would decrease from 3,200 square feet to 2.400 square feet.
In high-density neighborhoods, such as Sheraden, Knoxville, the minimum lot size would decrease from 1,800 square feet to 1,200 square feet. In very high-density neighborhoods, such as South Side Flats, Central Northside, the minimum lot size requirement would be eliminated. The legislation also removes the per-unit minimums for multifamily development.
The Pittsburgh Land Bank is one institution that would see a positive impact of this legislative change. “Removing barriers and liabilities to return vacant, tax-delinquent property to productive re-use is complex, slow, and often full of legal and bureaucratic hurdles - and it is exactly what the Land Bank was created to do,” states Acting Land Bank Executive Director, Sally Stadelman. “That’s why we strongly support any effort that
eliminates avoidable obstacles to making housing projects possible—especially for the CDCs and non-profits we work with, who are already juggling complex funding sources and building and zoning code compliance with growing construction costs and development deadlines. We applaud the passage of this legislation and urge continued action to streamline the processes to renovate and build housing in Pittsburgh.”
For press inquiries, please contact Councilman Wilson’s Chief of Staff, Julianne Hluska, at (412) 676-5758 or julianne.hluska@pittsburghpa.gov.
jasujazumdinski

Tagged as:

City Council

Back to top
Ready
jasujazumdinski