opens in new tab or window
Become a City of Pittsburgh Police Officer
Open side Menu
Why Serve
Pittsburgh
About PBP
Mentors
Salary & Benefits
Hiring Process
Specialty Units
FAQs
In This Section
Why Serve
Pittsburgh
About PBP
Mentors
Salary & Benefits
Hiring Process
Specialty Units
FAQs
Recruitment FAQ's
1) Do I have to submit my transcripts again if I submitted them in the past? Where do I submit my official transcript and/or DD-214?
Yes, high school diploma or official transcript, Act 120 certification and DD-214 forms (if applicable - copies acceptable) are required to be submitted during each application period. Each should be submitted to:
Attn: Nadia Schweizer
Department of Human Resources & Civil Service
Room 431 City-County Building
414 Grant Street
Pittsburgh, PA 15219
2) Does the City of Pittsburgh accept lateral transfers or provide additional compensation for veteran officers?
No, the city does not accept lateral transfers or provide additional compensation for certified officers. Those hired into the academy who are Act 120 certified officers, are eligible to attend an expedited academy, at the Bureau's discretion, of approximately 10 weeks in-classroom training rather than the 32 weeks in-classroom training which is required of those without prior police officer training/certification.
3) Does the City offer alternate testing dates to those who are unable to test on the scheduled dates due to military obligations?
Yes. If you are unable to attend the scheduled exam dates, you can send an email (with your deployment orders attached) addressed to the Civil Service Commissioners to paula.kellerman@pittsburghpa.gov requesting that you be permitted to take the exam on an alternate date.
4) I completed both the written and oral exams during the previous recruiting period. Are my test scores from those pervious exams still relevant, or am I required to apply and test again?
You are required to apply and test again as scores from previous lists are only valid during the duration of the specific list.
NOTE: You are required to apply and test again as scores from previous lists are only valid during the duration of the specific list.
If you have any further questions that are not found here, please contact joinpghpolice and we will be happy to answer any questions that you have.
last updated: 04/22/2025
Back to top
Ready
jasujazumdinski