opens in new tab or window
In This Section
City Planning
Mobility and Infrastructure
Permits, Licenses, and Inspections
Digital Equity In Pittsburgh
Small Business Resources
Public Works  - About Public Works
Contact Public Works
Environmental Services
Architecture Division
Street Maintenance Bureau
Forestry Division    - Pittsburgh Urban Forest
Special Initiatives
Forestry Partnerships
Forestry Events
Tree Planting
Request Tree Work
Appealing Street Tree Removal
Forestry Resource Links
Forestry FAQ
Vacant Lot Greening
Zoning
Geographic Information Systems, Mapping & Open Data
Procurement
PGH Lab
Sustainability
Forestry Events
The City of Pittsburgh is celebrating 20 years as a Tree City USA. The Tree City Certification Program is operated by the Arbor Day Foundation and has several requirements, including:
An annual budget of at least $2 per capita for tree work
An annual proclamation recognizing Arbor Day
An annual tree planting celebration
Shade Tree Commission in place to preserve and protect trees
We traditionally fly our Tree City USA flag on Mt. Washington from Earth Day to Arbor Day (April 22nd to April 26th), and will be kicking off our green season with a service day at the Forestry field office by planting one spruce tree for every year we have been a Tree City USA!
jasujazumdinski
Earth Day – April 22, 2025
Earth Day, celebrated annually on April 22nd, is a global day focused on raising awareness and promoting environmental protection, encouraging actions like recycling, reducing waste, and advocating for environmental policies. Forestry will have a kick-off celebration at the City-County Building portico from Noon to 1pm featuring various speakers and music. Other activities around the City include community cleanups, tree planting and educational activities.
Click here to see the Earth Day 2025 Flyer(PDF, 445KB)
Arbor Day – April 25, 2025
Arbor Day is a day dedicated annually to public tree-planting usually observed in late April that inspires people to plant, nurture, and celebrate trees. T o celebrate Pittsburgh’s 20th Anniversary of being a Tree City USA, there are a variety of events happening during the month of April. On Saturday, April 26, a community-oriented celebration takes place at Allegheny Commons Park on the North Side from 11am to 2pm. The event features music, food and a fun tree climb activity for kids. So, come on out and enjoy the festivities!
Click here to see the Arbor Day 2025 Flyer(PDF, 304KB)
The City isn't the only group standing out in support of Arbor Day and our City's tree canopy. Greenfield Elementary has been nominated as the first k-12 Tree Campus in the City of Pittsburgh, and is one of only two k-12 schools statewide to be in the running for this honor. Duquesne University has earned the status of Tree Campus USA certified institution through the Arbor Day Foundation, joining Pitt, Chatham and Carnegie Mellon University in showing our City's commitment to a health urban forest.
jasujazumdinski
April 2025 Events Celebrating Pittsburgh's 20th Tree City USA Anniversary
Click here to see list of April events(show below)
April 2
Tree Planting – Western PA Conservancy
Time: 8 AM \| Locations: Squirrel Hill, Shadyside, Point Breeze
April 3
Tree Planting – Tree Pittsburgh
Time: 9 AM \| Location: Enright Parklet
April 4
Tree Planting – Pittsburgh Parks Conservancy
Time: 9 AM \| Location: Bigbee Field
April 5
Tree Planting – Tree Pittsburgh
Time: 9 AM \| Location: South Side Park
April 6
Earth Month Celebration – Pittsburgh Parks Conservancy
Time: 2 PM - 5 PM \| Location: Westinghouse
April 7
Tree Planting – Tree Pittsburgh with Landforce
Time: 9 AM \| Location: Enright Parklet
April 11
Tree Planting – Tree Pittsburgh with Landforce
Time: 9 AM \| Location: Enright Parklet
April 12
Volunteer Event / Lake Cleanup – Pittsburgh Parks Conservancy
Time: 8:30 AM - 11:30 AM \| Location: Allegheny Commons
Tree Planting – Tree Pittsburgh
Time: 9 AM \| Location: Enright Parklet
April 14
Tree City USA 20 Years Street Sign Installation – City Forestry
Locations: Mt. Washington, Gateway Medians, Major Thoroughfares
Arboretum Banners Go Up – City Forestry
Location: Allegheny Commons Park
April 16
Tree Planting – Western PA Conservancy
Time: 8 AM \| Location: Western City Neighborhoods
jasujazumdinski
April 19
Earth Month Celebration – Pittsburgh Parks Conservancy
Time: 2 PM - 5 PM \| Location: McKinley
April 21
Flags & Park Banner Installation – City Forestry
Locations: Mt. Washington, CCB, City Forestry, Allegheny Commons Park
April 22
Tree Planting – Tree Pittsburgh
Time: 9 AM \| Location: St. Nicholas Church Historic Site Monument
April 24
Tree Planting – Tree Pittsburgh
Time: 9 AM \| Location: Officer Eric Kelley Memorial Field Park
April 25
PA Official Day of Observance Arbor Day / Roger Abbott Memorial Tree Planting / Crew Appreciation – City Forestry
Time: 11:30 AM - 2 PM \| Location: Forestry Field Office
Tree Planting – Mayor
Time: 4:30 PM \| Location: 2145 Centre Avenue
April 26
City-Sponsored Arbor Day – City Led
Time: 10 AM - 2 PM \| Location: Allegheny Commons
Tree Planting – Western PA Conservancy
Time: 9 AM \| Locations: Brighton Heights, Stanton Heights
FOMP Arbor Day – Friends of Mellon Park
Time: 11 AM - 2 PM \| Location: Mellon Park
Forest Bathing – Jen Rune
Time: 1 PM - 3 PM \| Location: Riverview Park
Friends of Riverview Park
Time: 2 PM - 5:30 PM \| Location: Allegheny Observatory Lawn
Click here to see the Allegheny Observatory Arbor Day flyer(PDF, 667KB)
Click here to see the Friends of Mellon Park flyer(PDF, 526KB)
Click here to see the Pittsburgh Parks Conservancy Earth Month Flyer(PDF, 1MB)
There are many opportunities available to volunteer to plant trees this spring!
Treevitalize has neighborhood plantings across the City of Pittsburgh and Allegheny County.
Tree Pittsburgh has restoration tree plantings and nursery volunteer days.
The Pittsburgh Parks Conservancy has several planting, tree care, and stewardship options.
Duquesne Light Company will also be planting trees in partnership with the City this Arbor Day around the city. Shade trees will be installed to provide shade for and clean air for residents.
Don't forget to register your privately planted trees with the tree canopy alliance (apart from those received as part of Tree Pittsburgh's giveaway trees) so that your contribution to our city-wide goal of planting 100,000 trees. Details can be found at https://pittsburghcanopyalliance.org/.
Haven't got any trees to plant, request one using our tree request form(PDF, 521KB)!
jasujazumdinski
Street Tree Equity Work
The City Equitable Street Tree Investment Strategy(PDF, 703KB) is rolling out its community engagement and outreach phase as part of our plan to ensure that the health benefits of trees are available to all our citizens. In recognition of the launch of this program, the City will be planting a tree in each of first ten neighborhoods.
Flowering Trees of Pittsburgh
Washington DC may have its cherry blossoms, but did you know that in the City of Pittsburgh has over 6000 trees that flower in the month of April! From apples and pears to redbuds, you can find all of our trees with this handy interactive map.
Coming Soon!
The City of Pittsburgh Significant Tree Registry will provide residents the opportunity to nominate outstanding or historic trees in public spaces for special status and recognition.
last updated: 04/24/2025
Back to top
Ready
jasujazumdinski