Skip to main content
opens in new tab or window
jasujazumdinski
2019
Download Article to PDF
Previous column Next column
| Title | Article | Post Date |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Media Advisory: Mayor Peduto to Honor Former Mayor Murphy with Key to City | Media AdvisoryPITTSBURGH, PA (January 2, 2019) Tomorrow morning Mayor William Peduto will hold a ceremony honoring former Mayor Tom Murphy with the Key to the City. Tomorrow is the 25th anniversary of Murphy's inauguration.WHERE: Mayor's Conference Room, 5th Floor, City-County BuildingWHEN: 11 a.m., Thursday, January 3, 2019 | 2/1/2019 16:39:59 |
| City Home Ownership Program Assists Record Numbers of Low to Moderate Income Families | PITTSBURGH, PA (January 2, 2019) Mayor William Peduto and the Housing Authority City of Pittsburgh are proud to announce that the authority’s homeownership program helped 21 low-to-moderate income families purchase homes last year, a five-fold increase since the program was relaunched in 2014. All 21 households received closing cost assistance and 12 received a soft second mortgage – a forgivable mortgage with no monthly payment provisions for a term of 10 years. The average amount of closing cost assistance granted was $5,157 and the average amount of the second deferred mortgage issued was $27,293. The sales prices of the homes purchased range from $143,500 to $67,500.  The homes are located throughout the City of Pittsburgh, including the following communities: Hazelwood, North Side, Lincoln-Larimer, Sout Side, Hill District, Knoxville, Garfield, Homewood, Carrick, Crafton Heights, West End and Sheraden.  HACP’s Homeownership Program helps qualified low to moderate income families overcome obstacles such as poor credit and inability to save by partnering with the Urban League of Greater Pittsburgh to provide home buyer education workshops and pre-purchase counseling. Participants in the program are also eligible to receive up to $8,000 in closing cost assistance which can also be coordinated with additional closing cost and/or down payment assistance from organizations including but not limited to The Bartko Foundation, the Urban Redevelopment Authority, FHLB First Front Door Grant Program, The PNC Grant, and Dollar Bank’s 3-2-1 Match Program. The program helped four households with homes in 2014, and 16 households in 2017. The program maintains an ongoing relationship with a variety of local lenders including Dollar Bank, First Commonwealth Bank, PNC Bank and many others whom have provided low interest fixed-rate mortgages to program participants.  The program is available to current HACP Housing Choice Voucher Program (Section 8) or Low Income Public Housing (LIPH) residents as well as low-to-moderate income families that are qualified to receive Housing Choice Voucher or LIPH rental assistance, meeting the minimum eligibility requirements. Any first-time home buyer who is currently and continuously employed full time for at least one year, with a minimum household income of $17,000 annually is eligible to enroll in the program. Employment exceptions apply to elderly and disabled households but there are no minimum income exceptions.  In order to purchase a home through the program, clients go through a process that consists of:  - Completing HUD/ HACP approved Homeownership Counseling; - Securing a first mortgage pre-approval which will require the applicant to have a good credit profile; - Receiving a letter of eligibility from the Occupancy Department prior to entering into the Homeownership Program (Non Section 8 and LIPH participants); and,  - Purchasing a home within the City of Pittsburgh Families and/or individuals interested in obtaining support toward their homeownership goals may contact DeAnna Vaughn at 412-456-5062 to discuss participation in HACP’s Homeownership Program. Current HACP residents are encouraged to speak to their assigned HACP FSS Service Coordinator. Families and/or individuals in need of credit counseling or debt repair are asked to contact the Urban League of Pittsburgh at 412-227-4815.  Complete eligibility requirements and program information is available at www.hacp.org. | 2/1/2019 14:14:51 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Thursday, January 3, 2019 | Recording 90.5 WESA's "The Confluence" Radio Show with Kevin GavinTime: 9:00 A.M.Location: Community Broadcast Center, 67 Bedford SquarePresenting Key To The City To Former Mayor Thomas J. MurphyTime: 11:00 A.M.Location: Mayor's Conference Room, City-County BuildingMeeting With Allegheny County Executive Rich FitzgeraldTime: 2:00 P.M.Location: Office of the County Executive, Allegheny County CourthouseMeeting With Chris SandvigTime: 3:00 P.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County Building | 3/1/2019 08:18:14 |
| Mayor Peduto Issues Former Mayor Murphy Key to City on 25th Anniversary of Inauguration | PITTSBURGH, PA (January 3, 2019) Mayor William Peduto today issued the Key to the City to former Mayor Tom Murphy, and announced plans to rename the North Side riverfront trail in his honor. Murphy is the second-longest serving Mayor in city history after only David L. Lawrence and was inaugurated to the first of his three terms on this day in 1994. As Mayor he led the drive to construct 25 miles of trails along Pittsburgh’s riverfronts, much of them through former industrial areas. In honor of that effort, Mayor Peduto is sending legislation to Pittsburgh City Council renaming the North Side portion of the Three Rivers Heritage Trail after Murphy. “The City of Pittsburgh owes a lot to Tom Murphy, a visionary who led us through turbulent times and planted the seeds for the regrowth we’re seeing now. It is my honor to issue him the Key to the City and make a gesture of thanks for his many years of public service,” Mayor Peduto said. Mayor Murphy is also a long-time runner on the city’s trails and one of the few Pittsburghers who has run in every Great Race since it was instituted by the late Mayor Richard Caliguiri in 1977. “We were willing to think about Pittsburgh in a different kind of way,” Mayor Murphy said at today’s ceremony. “The riverfronts were there for thousands of years but nobody thought much about doing anything with them. We made the decision that they could be a great asset.” The son of a steelworker, Murphy was a North Side community activist as well as a state representative from 1979 through 1993. Since 2006 he has been a senior resident fellow at the Urban Land Institute, a role in which he regularly travels the world telling the story of Pittsburgh’s revitalization. | 3/1/2019 13:22:42 |
| SCHENLEY RINK MASCOT SKATE SET FOR SATURDAY, JANUARY 12 | ## 40+ mascots to take part in 32nd annual event at City of Pittsburgh outdoor rinkWhere can you take to the ice with a penguin…a parrot…a fish…and a frog? Not to mention a skating cookie, cougar and kangaroo? Along with a dog, dinosaur and dozens of others?Join 40+ mascots on Saturday, January 12, from 1:30 - 3:30 p.m. at the City of Pittsburgh’s 32nd annual “Mascot Skate” at the Schenley Park Skating Rink when a menagerie of skating mascots will meet and greet fans of all ages.  Parents can take pictures of special moments as their children take to the ice with many well-known characters.Skating mascots will include Iceburgh, Pirate Parrot, Steely McBeam, Penn State Nittany Lion, Frankie the Fish, Mr. Froggy, Eat’n Park Smiley Cookie, Chatham Cougar, Kenny Kangaroo, McGruff the Crime Dog, Rita the Dinosaur and many others.Admission to the Mascot Skate is $5 for adults, $3 for youth (17 and younger) and $4 for seniors and military. Skate rental is $3 and skate sharpening is $5.For more information about the Mascot Skate, presented by WISH 99.7 FM, visit www.pittsburghpa.gov/schenley/rink or call 412-422-6523.SCHENLEY PARK SKATING RINK is one of only four outdoor ice rinks located in Allegheny County – and the only outdoor regulation-size ice rink in the City of Pittsburgh. The Schenley Park Skating Rink operates seven days a week and offers a variety of public sessions, lessons and special events. Private ice rental is available throughout the winter months, and a banquet/meeting room with kitchen is available for rental year-round. | 4/1/2019 11:42:02 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Friday, January 4, 2019 | Meeting With Calvin StemleyTime: 11:00 A.M.Location: Mayor's Conference Room, City-County BuildingMeeting With Chief Of Staff Daniel Gilman &amp; Chief Urban Affairs Officer Valarie McDonald-RobertsTime: 12:00 P.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County BuildingMeeting With Bloomfield Citizen Council's Janet Scullion &amp; Gloria LeDonneTime: 2:00 P.M.Location: Mayor's Conference Room, City-County BuildingScheduling Meeting With StaffTime: 3:30 P.M.Location: Mayor's Conference Room, City-County Building | 4/1/2019 08:51:08 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Monday, January 7, 2019 | No public events scheduled. | 7/1/2019 10:20:10 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Tuesday, January 8, 2019 | Speaking At Leadership Pittsburgh's Champagne LuncheonTime: 12:00 P.M.Location: Omni William Penn Hotel, Central Business DistrictMeeting With Dennis Astorino &amp; Christopher HaupTime: 2:00 P.M.Location: Mayor's Conference Room, City-County BuildingInterview With The Pittsburgh Tribune Review's Bob BauderTime: 3:00 P.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County Building | 8/1/2019 08:16:46 |
| City Signs New Contract with Union for Public Works Employees | PITTSBURGH, PA (January 9, 2019) The City of Pittsburgh last week finalized a five-year contract with the Pittsburgh Joint Collective Bargaining Committee (PJCBC), which represents hundreds of workers in the Department of Public Works. The contract features annual raises of 3% every year from 2019-2023 and includes a 2% signing bonus retroactive to 2018. PJCBC represents 337 workers on the front lines of city services to residents every day. They include carpenters, custodians, painters, plumbers, roofers, laborers and heavy equipment operators. (The union does not represent DPW workers in the Environmental Services Bureau.) In addition to the raises, the pact includes increases in tool allowances for the workers and city payments for Commercial Driver’s Licenses, which will provide career advancement opportunities for interested personnel.  In exchange the city received opportunities to involve more workers in snow removal efforts, as well as a redefinition of titled driver seniority unit work according to PA DMV CDL weight restrictions, which will greatly increase DPW’s operational efficiency. Mayor William Peduto signed the contract on December 21 and PJCBC chairman Philip Ameris Sr. signed it January 3. | 9/1/2019 12:55:38 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Wednesday, January 9, 2019 | Pennsylvania Municipal League Monthly CallTime: 10:00 A.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County BuildingMeeting With Calvin StemleyTime: 10:15 A.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County BuildingMeeting With Patrick Clark and Ritchie TabachnickTime: 11:00 A.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County BuildingWeekly Meeting With Director Of Public Safety Wendell Hissrich &amp; Chief Of Police Scott SchubertTime: 2:00 P.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County BuildingFilming Video For 100th Anniversary Of The GoodwillTime: 3:00 P.M.Location: Mayor's Conference Room, City-County BuildingMeeting With Allegheny County Executive Rich FitzgeraldTime: 4:00 P.M.Location: Mayor's Conference Room, City-County Building | 9/1/2019 08:49:46 |
| City of Pittsburgh's Schenley Park 32nd Annual Mascot Skate | PITTSBURGH, PA (January 9, 2019) Schenely Park Skating Rink will host its 32nd Annual Mascot Skate event Saturday, January 12, 2019, from 1:30 – 3:30 p.m. This is a popular event where you take to the ice with a penguin, parrot, fish … and not to mention a skating cookie, cougar and kangaroo. Along with a dog, dinosaur, and dozens of others, this family-friendly event is for people of all ages.  Parents can take pictures of special moments as their children take to the ice with many well-known characters. Skating mascots will include Iceburgh, Pirate Parrot, Steely McBeam, Penn State Nittany Lion, Frankie the Fish, Mr. Froggy, Eat’n Park Smiley Cookie, Chatham Cougar, Kenny Kangaroo, McGruff the Crime Dog, Rita the Dinosaur and many others.  Admission to the Mascot Skate is $5 for adults, $3 for youth (17 and younger) and $4 for seniors and military. Skate rental is $3, and skate sharpening is $5.  For more information about the Mascot Skate, presented by WISH 99.7 FM, visit http://www.pittsburghpa.gov/schenley/rink or call 412-422-6523.  SCHENLEY PARK SKATING RINK is one of only four outdoor ice rinks located in Allegheny County – and the only outdoor regulation-size ice rink in the City of Pittsburgh. The Schenley Park Skating Rink operates seven days a week and offers a variety of public sessions, lessons, and special events. Private ice rental is available throughout the winter months, and a banquet/meeting room with kitchen is available for rental year-round. | 9/1/2019 10:57:36 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Thursday, January 10, 2019 | Speaking At 2019 Spirit Of King Awards CeremonyTime: 10:00 A.M.Location: The Kingsley Association, LarimerMeeting With Raymond MendrolaTime: 11:30 A.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County BuildingMeeting With Director Of Mobility &amp; Infrastructure Karina RicksTime: 12:00 P.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County BuildingMeeting With Chief Urban Affairs Officer Valerie McDonald- RobertsTime: 2:00 P.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County BuildingFilming Video For NUMOTime: 3:00 P.M.Location: Mayor's Conference Room, City-County BuildingWeekly Scheduling MeetingTime: 4 : 00 P.M.Location: Mayor's Conference Room, City-County Building | 10/1/2019 07:44:47 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Friday, January 11, 2019 | Meeting On Increasing Community Inclusivity In PittsburghTime: 11:00 A.M.Location: Mayor's Conference Room, City-County BuildingMeeting With Howard FinemanTime: 12:00 P.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County BuildingMeeting With Benedum Foundation President Jen GiovannittiTime: 2:00 P.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County BuildingInterview With Greg EnrightTime: 3:00 P.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County BuildingMeeting With Representative Ed Gainey &amp; Councilman Daniel LavelleTime: 3:30 P.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County Building | 11/1/2019 06:52:33 |
| Lane Closure on Grant Street | PITTSBURGH, PA (January 11, 2019) The Department of Mobility and Infrastructure is announcing that the inbound lane of Grant Street will be closed on January 12, 2019, between 6:30 a.m. and 1:30 p.m., to allow the operation of a crane to remove the Christmas Tree, wreaths, and decorations at the City-County Building. If you have any questions, please contact Lisa Ceoffe, City Forester, at 412-665-3626. | 11/1/2019 10:31:28 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Monday, January 14, 2019 | Press Conference With Department Of Public Safety &amp; Bureau Of PoliceTime: 11:00 A.M.Location: Mayor's Conference Room, City-County BuildingInterview With Amanda PaulsonTime: 12:00 P.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County Building | 14/1/2019 08:24:19 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Tuesday, January 15, 2019 | Inauguration of Lt. Governor John FettermanTime: 10 a.m.Location: State Capitol Building, Harrisburg Inauguration of Governor Tom WolfTime: NoonLocation: State Capitol Building, HarrisburgInaugural CelebrationTime: 7 p.m.Location: PA Farm Show Complex and Expo Center | 15/1/2019 09:53:14 |
| Forward Avenue/Commercial Street to Close Next Week for Landslide Work | PITTSBURGH, PA (January 15, 2019) The City of Pittsburgh Department of Mobility and Infrastructure is announcing that due to a landslide condition, a portion of Forward Avenue/Commercial Street in Squirrel Hill and Swisshelm Park will be closed to vehicular traffic during daylight hours next week.The roadway will be closed from Summerset Drive to Whipple Street from 9 a.m.-3 p.m. from Monday, January 21, through Friday, January 25, to enable contractors to drill core borings into the hillside. Emergency vehicles and school buses will be accommodated by workers onsite.Those with questions may contact Paul Loy, Project Engineer at 412.255.8601. | 15/1/2019 12:20:55 |
| Pittsburgh Police to Establish New Domestic Violence Unit with Funding from Nina Baldwin Fisher Foundation | PITTSBURGH, PA (January 15, 2019) The Pittsburgh Bureau of Police is set to establish a new investigations unit this year focusing on domestic violence cases, using $500,000 in funding from the Nina Baldwin Fisher Foundation.Legislation accepting the funding is being introduced to Pittsburgh City Council today. It would support creation of a Domestic Violence (DV) unit in the police bureau consisting of one DV Sergeant (new position), one DV Detective (existing position), one DV Detective Specialist (new position), and one civilian clerical specialist (new position).“Pittsburgh Police officers respond to thousands of domestic violence calls every year, and this generous grant from the Nina Baldwin Fisher Foundation will enhance our services and responses to victims in desperate need of our help,” Mayor William Peduto said.The unit will increase Pittsburgh Police resources in support of victims of domestic crimes, including those who are victim witnesses in criminal cases and those who file for protection from abuse relief.The unit will expand data collection and processing to improve investigations of domestic violence and review all domestic violence incident reports. Unit members will participate in collaborative justice system projects and community outreach in the area of domestic violence. They will also participate in national training on domestic violence best practices for law enforcement and become leaders in implementing such best practices locally.Pittsburgh Police respond to more than 13,000 domestic violence calls annually. In 2015, for example, there were 10,464 “domestic” calls to PBP as well as 2,522 “Domestic - PFA Service or Violation” calls. For calls to PBP for which arrests are made for crimes of intimate partner violence, there are about 1,500 a year.In addition, officers in the PBP administer more than 1,400 lethality assessment screens every year to victims of intimate partner violence as they work to identify victims at high risk of being killed by their partners and refer them for supportive services.The city will work with advocates at Women’s Center &amp; Shelter of Greater Pittsburgh to implement the unit.Nicole Molinaro, President/CEO of Women’s Center &amp; Shelter of Greater Pittsburgh, said “We applaud the level of commitment and collaboration from the City and the Bureau of Police in developing this new initiative. We are grateful for the Nina Baldwin Fisher Foundation’s leadership and for the funding provided to make all of this possible. The specialization of the new DV Unit will be critical for Pittsburgh to keep pace with national best practices and will enable the police to build on their exemplary work in the Lethality Assessment Program that has been lauded as extremely successful across the State and by the PA Coalition Against Domestic Violence. We look forward to an expanded partnership with the police to better address domestic violence in the City.”Pittsburgh Police have comprehensive policies and procedures for all officers to use when responding to DV incidents. However the police bureau and the DV victims it serves would benefit greatly from the addition of more DV specialists as well as a new database for the tracking of DV crimes.“This will allow us to integrate our systems to better serve all domestic violence victims,” Assistant Chief of Police Lavonnie Bickerstaff said.Funding for the five-year grant from the Nina Baldwin Fisher Foundation is set to begin January 31, 2019. | 15/1/2019 09:00:20 |
| City of Pittsburgh Offices and Facilities Closed for Martin Luther King Jr. Day and Refuse Collection Suspended | PITTSBURGH, PA (January 16, 2019) City of Pittsburgh offices and facilities will be closed in observance of Martin Luther King Jr. Day, Monday, January 21, and refuse collection will be suspended. Citiparks facilities including recreation centers and Healthy Active Living centers will be closed MLK Jr. Day, as well as the Mellon Park tennis bubble and the Oliver Bath House.  The refuse collection schedule will proceed as follows:  If your scheduled day of collection is Monday, January 21, 2019 you will be serviced on Tuesday, January 22, 2019.  If your scheduled day of collection is Tuesday, January 22, 2019 you will be serviced on Wednesday, January 23, 2019 and so on through Saturday, January 26, 2019. If you should have any questions concerning your collection, you may contact Environmental Services at 412-255-2773. | 16/1/2019 14:57:41 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Wednesday, January 16, 2019 | Welcoming Delegation From Dubai To PittsburghTime: 2:00 P.M.Location: Mayor's Conference Room, City-County BuildingMeeting With Tom Balistrieri &amp; Mike KutzerTime: 3:00 P.M.Location: Mayor's Conference Room, City-County Building | 16/1/2019 09:26:29 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Thursday, January 17, 2019 | Meeting With Allegheny County Executive Rich FitzgeraldTime: 9:30 A.M.Location: Office of the County Executive, Allegheny County CourthouseMeeting With Eileen Stewart &amp; Susan KalichTime: 1:00 P.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County BuildingMeeting With Director Of Innovation &amp; Performance Santiago GarcesTime: 1:30 P.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County BuildingGrantmakers Of Western Pennsylvania's Annual New Year MeetingTime: 3:30 P.M.Location: The Duquesne Club, Central Business District | 17/1/2019 07:16:04 |
| City Approves First Registered Community Organizations and Offers Technical Assistance for Interested Groups | PITTSBURGH, PA (January 17, 2019) The Registered Community Organization (RCO) process is now underway. The Larimer Consensus Group and Oakland Planning and Development Corporation have completed the application process and are now established as RCOs. As RCOs, these organizations will receive notification of public hearings, be guaranteed meetings with developers/applicants prior to public hearings, be able to develop neighborhood plans for City approval, and be recognized on official maps, brochures, and directories as a result of their RCO status. The RCO legislation, supported by Mayor Peduto and approved as legislation by the City Council in late 2018, supports neighborhood groups and the work they do on behalf of residents and their communities. An organization can apply to be an RCO at any time throughout the year. Registration is free, and applications will be accepted throughout 2019 and beyond. Please download an application here.    For community groups that are interested in applying for Registered Community Organization (RCO) status, the City of Pittsburgh is sponsoring free training with options for either classroom training or one-on-one sessions, both available for registration here.  Classroom training will provide extra assistance on organizational strategies to engage their communities and other partners.  The class will also review systems and documentation necessary for submitting the RCO application.  If you sign up with other nearby community groups, there will be opportunity to plan and coordinate together.   Your first opportunity to take advantage of this training and support is coming up!   DETAILS:  Date: January 25, 2019, from 9:00 a.m. to 11:30 a.m. Location: The Bayer Center for Nonprofit Management in Downtown Pittsburgh (339 Sixth Ave, Suite 750).   Registration is open for all community groups.   Can't make it in January? No worries.  Additional sessions will be held throughout the year and refined based upon feedback from community organizations. The calendar here posts up-to-date information.   _____________________________________________________________________________________ The Registered Community Organization (RCO) Program provides a standard and predictable method for community input on development activities and planning processes throughout the city of Pittsburgh.  The benefits of RCO status include notification of public hearings, guaranteed meeting with developer/applicant prior to a public hearing, Planning Commission adoption of neighborhood plan developed with RCO, and placement on Official Maps, Brochures, and Directories. This framework establishes criteria for becoming a RCO to promote transparency, inclusivity, and community engagement. The program outlines specific responsibilities and procedures that RCOs, the City, and any developers/applicants applying to work in that community prior to public hearings.  The RCO Ordinance permits more than one RCO within the same geographic area and encourages community organizations to work cooperatively with adjacent or overlapping community organizations.  For more information on RCOs, resources, and frequently asked questions, please see the website at http://pittsburghpa.gov/dcp/rco. | 17/1/2019 15:18:32 |
| City of Pittsburgh Prepares for Snow Expected This Weekend | PITTSBURGH, PA (January 18, 2019) All Public Works equipment – from plows with salt spreaders to smaller tractors and pickup trucks – are ready to respond to this weekend’s storms. The city has abundant salt supplies on hand, with enough to respond to 20 inches of snow. Public Works will begin working 12-hour shifts at 10:00 a.m. on Saturday, with over 60 trucks out. Crews will be focusing on treating roads at the expected beginning of the snow event Saturday afternoon with salt containing liquid calcium as well as new supplies of blue-tinted salt mixed with magnesium chloride, which is effective to temperatures as low as negative 25 degrees Fahrenheit. With freezing rain expected that can weigh down tree branches and threaten utility lines DPW has told its forestry division to be on alert, and has further alerted outside contract contractors that they may be called into service.  DPW Director Mike Gable advised residents to refrain from driving as much as possible over the weekend – including the Martin Luther King Jr. holiday on Monday – to allow crews to treat and plow roadways as effectively as possible. If you must be out, it is advised to please drive slowly and with caution. 311 will be open on Sunday, January 20, 2019,  9:00 a.m. to 3:00 p.m. to field any related request. Due to the extreme cold weather that is going to hit our area at the end of the weekend and into Monday, Citiparks will have 2 locations open for warming centers on Monday 1/21/19 from 8 a.m. to 8 p.m.: - HOMEWOOD HAL Center--7321 Frankstown Avenue, 15208    412.244.4190   - SOUTHSIDE MARKET HOUSE HAL Center--12th &amp; Bingham Streets, 15203     412.488.8404 | 18/1/2019 15:58:11 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Friday, January 18, 2019 | Meeting With Rebecca Bagley, Katrina Kelly-Pitou, Grant Ervin, &amp; Feyisola AlabiTime: 11:00 A.M.Location: Mayor's Conference Room, City-County BuildingInterview With Pittsburgh Quarterly's Evan PattakTime: 1:30 P.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County BuildingMeeting With Alan HausmanTime: 2:00 P.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County BuildingMeeting With Director Of Mobility &amp; Infrastructure Karina Ricks &amp; Jeremy GoldmanTime: 3:30 P.M.Location: Mayor's Conference Room, City-County BuildingMaster Builders' Association's Annual Membership ReceptionTime: 6:00 P.M.Location: The Duquesne Club, Central Business District | 18/1/2019 08:26:45 |
| Saturday Weather and Road Condition Update | PITTSBURGH, PA (January 19, 2019) Weather conditions in the City of Pittsburgh have changed since forecasts yesterday, with temperatures staying above freezing and the snow expected for today instead remaining rain.The Department of Public Works expects temperatures to stay mild well into early Sunday morning, with snow now not expected until the early morning hours. Pretreating the roads with salt is not being performed until the temperatures fall, since this evening's rain would merely wash salt treatments away. Motorists should remain aware of possibly icy conditions tomorrow morning, when there could be a mix of freezing rain and snow on roadways."Drivers and pedestrians should not let their guard down and need to still give strong consideration to whether they need to travel in Sunday's conditions," DPW Director Mike Gable said.Updates will follow as necessary. | 19/1/2019 16:01:13 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Tuesday, January 22, 2019 | Press Conference With Senator Jay Costa &amp; Representative Ed GaineyTime: 10:00 A.M.Location: Mayor's Conference Room, City-County BuildingMeeting With Director Of City Planning Ray Gastil, Director Of Mobility &amp; Infrastructure Karina Ricks, &amp; Director Of Urban Redevelopment Authority Robert RubinsteinTime: 12:30 P.M.Location: Mayor's Conference Room, City-County BuildingPromotion Ceremony For Pittsburgh Bureau Of Police Sergeant John FisherTime: 1:00 P.M.Location: Mayor's Conference Room, City-County BuildingMeeting With Romanian Ambassador George Cristian MaiorTime: 1:30 P.M.Location: Mayor's Conference Room, City-County BuildingMeeting With Jim Wolf, Craig Davis, &amp; Chuck StoutTime: 4:00 P.M.Location: Mayor's Conference Room, City-County Building | 22/1/2019 07:52:37 |
| Media Advisory: Press Conference This Morning with Mayor Peduto and Legislators | Media AdvisoryPITTSBURGH, PA (January 22, 2019) Mayor William Peduto will host legislators and housing advocates this morning to discuss new homeowner-protection legislation.WHO: State Sen. Jay Costa, State Rep. Ed Gainey, State Rep. Sara Innamorato, Mayor Peduto, City Councilwoman Deb Gross, Housing Alliance of PennsylvaniaWHERE: Mayor's Conference Room, 5th Floor, City-County BuildingWHEN: 10 a.m., Tuesday, January 22, 2019 | 22/1/2019 09:19:48 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Wednesday, January 23, 2019 | PITTSBURGH, PA (January 23, 2019) Mayor William Peduto travels today to Washington D.C. for the Winter Meeting of the U.S. Conference of Mayors, where later in the week he will speak on two panels on the gun violence plaguing American communities. He speaks on a panel Friday morning called “City Initiatives to Reduce Gun Violence” moderated by Cincinnati Mayor John Cranley. Later that morning he speaks on a panel called “Responding to the Growing Incidence of Hate Crimes” moderated by Gary, Indiana, Mayor Karen Freeman-Wilson. Mayor Peduto also plans to meet during the week with the mayors of cities that have also experienced gun massacres like that on October 27 at the Tree of Life synagogue in Squirrel Hill. Mayor William Peduto’s Public Schedule – Wednesday, January 23, 2019:Flight to Washington D.C. Time: 9:30 a.m. Panel on "Fostering Inclusive Prosperity Nationally" with Denver Mayor Michael B. Hancock and Richard Florida Time: 2:45 p.m. Location: Hyatt Place, Washington D.C.  Opening Reception Time: 6:30 p.m. Location: Capitol Hilton, Washington D.C. Tribute to Mayors Dinner, hosted by Latino Leaders Network Time: 8 p.m. Location: Mayflower Hotel, Washington D.C. | 23/1/2019 09:06:52 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Thursday, January 24, 2019 | PITTSBURGH, PA (January 24, 2019) Mayor William Peduto is in Washington D.C. for the Winter Meeting of the U.S. Conference of Mayors, where tomorrow he will speak on two panels on the gun violence plaguing American communities. He speaks on a panel Friday morning called “City Initiatives to Reduce Gun Violence” moderated by Cincinnati Mayor John Cranley. Later that morning he speaks on a panel called “Responding to the Growing Incidence of Hate Crimes” moderated by Gary, Indiana, Mayor Karen Freeman-Wilson. Mayor Peduto is also meeting with the mayors of cities that have also experienced gun massacres like that on October 27 at the Tree of Life synagogue in Squirrel Hill. Mayor William Peduto’s Public Schedule – Thursday, January 23, 2019:Breakfast and meeting with Vice President Joe Biden Time: 8:45 a.m. Location: Capitol Hilton, Washington D.C. Panel on Technology and Innovation: Visioning The Future Needs of Cities Time: 9:30 a.m. Location: Capitol Hilton, Washington D.C. Meeting with Orlando Mayor Buddy Dyer and Parkland Mayor Christine Hunschofsky Time: 11 a.m. Location: Capitol Hilton, Washington D.C. Panel on New Transportation Technologies and Opportunities Time: 3 p.m. Location: Capitol Hilton, Washington D.C. Interview with The Hill Time: 4 p.m. Location: Capitol Hilton, Washington D.C. Dinner with U.S. Conference of Mayors President Stephen Benjamin Time: 8 p.m. | 24/1/2019 09:09:03 |
| Mayor William Peduto’s Public Schedule – Friday, January 25, 2019 | PITTSBURGH, PA (January 25, 2019) Mayor William Peduto is in Washington D.C. for the Winter Meeting of the U.S. Conference of Mayors, where he is speaking on two panels on the gun violence plaguing American communities. He speaks on a panel today called “City Initiatives to Reduce Gun Violence” moderated by Cincinnati Mayor John Cranley. Later this morning he speaks on a panel called “Responding to the Growing Incidence of Hate Crimes” moderated by Gary, Indiana, Mayor Karen Freeman-Wilson. Mayor Peduto is also meeting with the mayors of cities that have also experienced gun massacres like that on October 27 at the Tree of Life synagogue in Squirrel Hill.  Mayor William Peduto’s Public Schedule – Friday, January 25, 2019City Initiatives to Reduce Gun Violence panel, with Mayor Peduto: Mayor Cranley; Toledo Mayor Wake Kapszukiewicz; March for Our Lives –co-founder David Hogg; and Everytown for Gun Safety legislative director Sarah Trumble.Time: 9:15 a.m. Location: Capitol Hilton, Washington D.C. Responding to the Growing Incidence of Hate Crimes panel with Mayor Peduto; Mayor Freeman-Wilson; Anti-Defamation League counsel Michael Lieberman; Chattanooga Mayor Andy Berke; Montgomery County Police Department Chief and Past President of the Major Cities Chiefs Association Tom Manger.Time: 11:45 a.m. Location: Capitol Hilton, Washington D.C. Lunch with Annapolis Mayor Gavin BuckleyTime: 1 p.m. Flight to Pittsburgh5 p.m. | 25/1/2019 11:20:01 |
| City Launching Dolly Parton Book Gifting Program with Support from Benter Foundation | PITTSBURGH, PA (January 28, 2019) Mayor William Peduto’s administration plans to launch a free book program for children from birth to age 5 with generous support from the Benter Foundation.Legislation is being introduced to Pittsburgh City Council tomorrow to accept $250,000 from the foundation to establish a pilot effort to introduce Dolly Parton’s Imagination Library program to the city. Since its inception in 1995 the program from the country music superstar has mailed more than 113 million books, for free, to children in the United States, Canada, Australia and the United Kingdom.Studies of the Imagination Library have found that:- Parents read aloud more to their children and were more comfortable reading as a result of the program.- Parents believed their children were more interested in reading due to receiving the books each month.- Participating children were excited when their books arrived in the mail monthly, addressed to them specifically.- The positive views of the program and its impacts were present regardless of the demographic characteristics of the community or its participants, and longer program participation often resulted in more positive outcomes.Once enrolled, a child receives a high-quality, age-appropriate book personally addressed to them until they reach the age of five. The Imagination Library is responsible for covering overhead costs, databases, a book selection committee, and monthly mailings. As an Imagination Library affiliate, the City of Pittsburgh would be responsible for covering the ongoing monthly costs associated with mailing each book, which costs $25 per child for one year, as well as enrollment and promotional activities.Tiffini Simoneaux, manager of the city’s Office of Early Childhood in Mayor Peduto’s Bureau of Neighborhood Empowerment, is leading the city’s enrollment in the program.“Research shows that early literacy experiences including access to books in the home are fundamental ingredients for future academic success. This program will enable young children throughout the City to build a home library of up to 60 books,” Simoneaux said.Once the funding from the Benter Foundation is approved the Office of Early Childhood will launch the first steps of the program, including outreach and communication plans, engaging with local organizations that work with young children and families, and the launch of program.In addition to monthly mailing costs, the city would also use a small portion of the funding to pay for materials to advertise the program and for community outreach events to promote the program, largely in underserved areas of the city.“We’re pleased to partner with the City of Pittsburgh and other community allies to help children develop a lifelong love of reading. Having your own books at home unlocks a new world of learning and language that can help Pittsburgh’s children thrive,” said Bill Benter, president of The Benter Foundation. | 28/1/2019 10:16:24 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Monday, January 28, 2019 | Meeting With Deputy Chief of Staff Majestic Lane &amp; Special Initiatives Manager Feyisola AlabiTime: 1:00 P.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County BuildingAnnual Interview With City Channel PittsburghTime: 2:00 P.M.Location: Mayor's Conference Room, City-County BuildingInterview With Eva Tumiel-Kozak &amp; Richard HowlandTime: 2:30 P.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County Building | 28/1/2019 08:30:56 |
| City of Pittsburgh Prepares for Cold Temperatures | PITTSBURGH, PA (January 29, 2019) City of Pittsburgh departments, agencies and partners are preparing for several different possible impacts from the bitterly cold temperatures forecasted for the this week. Several Citiparks recreation centers and senior Healthy Active Living centers will be open to serve as warming centers. The Magee, West Penn, Brookline and Phillips Community Recreation Centers will be open until 9 p.m., and the Jefferson, Ammon, Paulson, Ormsby and Warrington centers are until 8 p.m. ( Locations are listed here.) Typically senior centers close at 4 p.m. but on Wednesday and Thursday hours will be extended until 9 p.m. at the following four centers:  - Greenfield, 745 Greenfield Ave.   - Homewood, 7321 Frankstown Ave.   - Sheraden, 720 Sherwood Ave.   - South Side, 12th &amp; Bingham St.   Refuse collection by the Department of Public Works is expected to continue as scheduled, but if collection becomes unsafe for DPW personnel garbage left at the curbside will be collected a day or two later, and possibly during the weekend. Construction Junction in North Point Breeze will closed tomorrow, and due to that closure the City of Pittsburgh recycling drop-off center located 214 N. Lexington Ave. will also be closed to the general public.   Please note the Schenley Ice Skating Rink will be closed Wednesday and Thursday. Pittsburgh Public Safety officials are preparing on several fronts.  The Fire Bureau warns residents to exercise safety when using space heaters. Do not place them close to furniture, follow the manufacturers safety recommendations, and do not place heaters close to anything combustible. It is advised not to use kitchen appliances such as stoves and ovens to heat homes. Emergency Medical Services receives many slip-and-fall calls during extreme cold. Residents – and particularly seniors – are reminded to use caution and limit their time outside if possible. As a reminder, rock salt does not melt ice at negative 5-degree temperatures and below. Local rivers are starting to freeze and the Allegheny River is expected to freeze over. Residents and visitors should not walk on frozen bodies of water. Water Rescue will have an air boat ready to deploy for emergencies. By law, pets cannot be left outside for more than 30 minutes in freezing temperatures. Animal Control officials will be on patrol through the week. Pittsburgh Police will be checking on those experiencing homelessness. Low barrier, Downtown resources are listed below. A more complete list of free resources for people in need can be found at www.bigburgh.com. - Downtown Low Barrier Shelter, Smithfield United Church of Christ, 620 Smithfield St. It will have extended hours this week only from 6 p.m. - 8 a.m. Monday-Friday, and 6 p.m. - 10 a.m. Saturday and Sunday.  - Catholic Charities Day/Warming Program, 212 Ninth St., regular hours 7:30 a.m. - 3:30 p.m., Monday-Saturday. - Wellspring Drop In Center, 903 Watson St., regular hours 10 a.m. - 6 p.m., Monday-Friday. | 29/1/2019 11:37:12 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Tuesday, January 29, 2019 | Meeting With Ted LeeTime: 11:00 A.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County BuildingInterview With WESA's Kevin GavinTime: 12:00 P.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County BuildingPresenting Mayor Sophie Masloff Employee Of the Month AwardTime: 1:30 P.M.Location: Mayor's Conference Room, City-County BuildingMeeting With Allegheny County Executive Rich FitzgeraldTime: 2:00 P.M.Meeting With Bo Risgaard Pedersen, Head Advisor To The Minister Of Energy, Climate, &amp; Utilities of DenmarkTime: 3:00 P.M.Location: Mayor's Conference Room, City-County BuildingMeeting With Chief Of Staff Daniel GilmanTime: 4:00 P.M.Location: Mayor's Conference Room, City-County BuildingWeekly Scheduling MeetingTime: 5:00 P.M.Location: Mayor's Conference Room, City-County Building | 29/1/2019 09:03:57 |
| City Seeks Contractor Proposals for City Cuts Senior Lawn-Cutting Program | PITTSBURGH, PA (January 30 , 2019) The City of Pittsburgh is now soliciting bids for the second year of its City Cuts lawn-cutting program, and will hold meetings for interested contractors starting this weekend.  Solicitation #19000024 went live yesterday on Beacon, the City’s transparent, web-based procurement platform.City Cuts began in 2018 through legislation introduced by Councilwoman Theresa Kail-Smith, and assisted more than 950 Pittsburgh seniors and those with disabilities with lawn cutting last year. “City Cuts improves the look of the community and helps people who need a helping hand,” the councilwoman said. Sign-up information for those seeking the complimentary service — available to Pittsburgh residents 62 and older or with a disability — will be announced at the end of March. Homeowners receiving the service will need to sign a liability waiver.“We are looking forward to building on the 2018 pilot year to provide better service to residents. Improvements to the program will include hiring more contractors to cut lawns twice a month from May through October,” Mayor William Peduto said.Operations of all sizes are encouraged to attend one of four upcoming pre-proposal meetings:Saturday, February 2, 20191pm-2:30pmCalifornia Coffee Bar3619 California AvenuePittsburgh, PA 15212Wednesday, February 6, 201911:30am-1pmCarnegie Library of Pittsburgh, Carrick branch1811 Brownsville RoadPittsburgh, PA 15210Wednesday, February 6, 20196-7:30pmCity of Pittsburgh Office of Budget and ManagementCity-County Building414 Grant Street, 5th floor, Ross Street side (enter building at Ross Street entrance)Pittsburgh, PA 15219Wednesday, February 13, 20196-7:30pmCity of Pittsburgh Office of Budget and ManagementCity-County Building414 Grant Street, 5th floor, Ross Street side (enter building at Ross Street entrance)Pittsburgh, PA 15219In their bids, contractors need to specify in which neighborhood(s) they can provide service. Bids are due March 1, 2019 in order for the program to begin in May. | 30/1/2019 10:26:07 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Wednesday, January 30, 2019 | WTAE-TV Project CommUNITY InterviewTime: 11:00 A.M.Location: Everyday Cafe - 532 North Homewood Avenue, Point Breeze NorthMeeting With The Urban Redevelopment Authority's Tom Link &amp; InnovatePGH's Sean  LutherTime: 1:30 P.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County BuildingPittsburgh Bureau Of Police Promotion CeremonyTime: 2:00 P.M.Location: Mayor's Conference Room, City-County BuildingWeekly Meeting With Director Of Public Safety Wendell Hissrich &amp; Chief Of Police Scott SchubertTime: 2:30 P.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County BuildingMeeting With Allegheny County Executive Rich Fitzgerald, Chief Of Staff Daniel Gilman, &amp; Director Of City Planning Ray GastilTime: 3:30 P.M.Location: Office of the County Executive, Allegheny County CourthouseMeeting With Councilperson Erika StrassburgerTime: 4:30 P.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County Building | 30/1/2019 09:28:37 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Thursday, January 31, 2019 | No public events scheduled. | 31/1/2019 08:23:26 |
| Pittsburgh Finances Receive Upgraded Credit Rating | PITTSBURGH, PA (February 1, 2019) The City of Pittsburgh has received an upgraded credit rating, with agencies praising the city’s financial management and operating surpluses. Credit rating agencies Moody’s and Standard &amp; Poors issued reports this week grading City finances to be in stable condition in advance of issuing $60 million in bonds to pay for city infrastructure upgrades. S&amp;P raised its rating on the city’s debt one notch to AA- from A+, and Moody’s retained its A1 rating. “The rating also reflects S&amp;P Global Ratings' opinion of the city's significant strides during the past three years to improve overall finances and management practices. Budget performance has been positive and contributed to increasing reserves to, what the rating service considers, very strong levels. In addition, the embedding of new and long-standing financial practices and policies into the city's code should help maintain discipline to ensure fiscal stability,” said the January 31 report by Standard &amp; Poor’s. Said Moody’s: “The A1 rating reflects Pittsburgh's diverse and vibrant tax base is supported by the anchoring presence of several renowned education and medical institutions ("eds &amp; meds"), which has driven substantial ancillary business growth in technology, robotics and life sciences industries in the city. The A1 rating also incorporates the city's strong operating surpluses over the last few years, and current satisfactory reserve and liquidity levels.” | 1/2/2019 08:50:30 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Friday, February 1, 2019 | Launch Event For The Army Artificial Intelligence Task ForceTime: 11:00 A.M.Location: National Robotics Engineering Center, Central LawrencevilleTelephone Call With Michael ZamagiasTime: 1:30 P.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County BuildingMeeting With Chief Of Staff Daniel Gilman &amp; City Solicitor Yvonne HiltonTime: 3:30 P.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County Building | 1/2/2019 08:13:45 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Saturday, February 2, 2019 | Saturday, February 2, 2019Speaking At Keystone Progress SummitTime: 12:30 P.M.Location IBEW Hall - Local 5, South Side FlatsSunday, February 3, 2019No public events scheduled. | 2/2/2019 12:05:08 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Monday, February 4, 2019 | WAMO InterviewTime: 11:30 A.M.Locations: Office of the Mayor, City-County BuildingMeeting With Chief of Staff Daniel Gilman &amp; Chief Resilience Officer Grant ErvinTime: 1:30 P.M.Location: Mayor's Conference Room, City-County Building | 4/2/2019 08:19:13 |
| City Launching Dolly Parton Book Gifting Program with Support from Benter Foundation | PITTSBURGH, PA (February 4, 2019) Mayor William Peduto’s administration plans to launch a free book program for children from birth to age 5 with generous support from the Benter Foundation.Legislation is being introduced to Pittsburgh City Council tomorrow to accept $250,000 from the foundation to establish a pilot effort to introduce Dolly Parton’s Imagination Library program to the city. Since its inception in 1995 the program from the country music superstar has mailed more than 113 million books, for free, to children in the United States, Canada, Australia and the United Kingdom.Studies of the Imagination Library have found that:- Parents read aloud more to their children and were more comfortable reading as a result of the program.- Parents believed their children were more interested in reading due to receiving the books each month.- Participating children were excited when their books arrived in the mail monthly, addressed to them specifically.- The positive views of the program and its impacts were present regardless of the demographic characteristics of the community or its participants, and longer program participation often resulted in more positive outcomes.Once enrolled, a child receives a high-quality, age-appropriate book personally addressed to them until they reach the age of five. The Imagination Library is responsible for covering overhead costs, databases, a book selection committee, and monthly mailings. As an Imagination Library affiliate, the City of Pittsburgh would be responsible for covering the ongoing monthly costs associated with mailing each book, which costs $25 per child for one year, as well as enrollment and promotional activities.Tiffini Simoneaux, manager of the city’s Office of Early Childhood in Mayor Peduto’s Bureau of Neighborhood Empowerment, is leading the city’s enrollment in the program.“Research shows that early literacy experiences including access to books in the home are fundamental ingredients for future academic success. This program will enable young children throughout the City to build a home library of up to 60 books,” Simoneaux said.Once the funding from the Benter Foundation is approved the Office of Early Childhood will launch the first steps of the program, including outreach and communication plans, engaging with local organizations that work with young children and families, and the launch of program.In addition to monthly mailing costs, the city would also use a small portion of the funding to pay for materials to advertise the program and for community outreach events to promote the program, largely in underserved areas of the city.“We’re pleased to partner with the City of Pittsburgh and other community allies to help children develop a lifelong love of reading. Having your own books at home unlocks a new world of learning and language that can help Pittsburgh’s children thrive,” said Bill Benter, president of The Benter Foundation. | 4/2/2019 09:59:03 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Tuesday, February 5, 2019 | Meeting With Chief Of Staff Daniel Gilman &amp; Chief Sustainability Officer Grant ErvinTime: 10:00 A.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County BuildingMeeting With Scott AstorinoTime: 11:00 A.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County BuildingWeekly Scheduling MeetingTime: 2:30 P.M.Location: Mayor's Conference Room, City-County BuildingCity Of Pittsburgh Black History Month Exhibit Opening GalaTime: 5:30 P.M.Location: Grand Lobby, City-County Building | 5/2/2019 08:44:23 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Wednesday, February 6, 2019 | Speaking At School District Of Pittsburgh’s Career &amp; Technical Education Month KickoffTime: 11:30 A.M.Location: Westinghouse High School, Homewood WestMeeting With Downtown Community Development Corporation’s John ValentineTime: 1:30 P.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County BuildingWeekly Meeting With Director Of Public Safety Wendell Hissrich &amp; Chief Of Police Scott SchubertTime: 2:00 P.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County BuildingHillel Academy Annual Dinner With Pittsburgh Public Safety PersonnelTime: 6:30 P.M.Location: Marriot City Centre, Central Business District | 6/2/2019 08:47:20 |
| Housing Opportunity Fund Recommends Funding for Hundreds of Affordable Housing Units | PITTSBURGH, PA (February 7, 2019) The Housing Opportunity Fund (HOF) Advisory Board this morning voted to recommend that the URA Board of Directors approve three resolutions supporting hundreds of affordable housing units citywide.The URA board will take action at its next meeting on Thursday, February 14.Homeowner Assistance Program AdministratorsThe URA Board will consider HOF agreements with the following six non-profit organizations to serve as program administrators for the Homeowner Assistance Program (HAP):- Action Housing, Inc. in the amount of $500,000 to complete 18 - 22 homes- Habitat for Humanity of Greater Pittsburgh in the amount of $200,000 to complete 7 - 9 homes- Hilltop Alliance in the amount of $400,000 to complete 14 – 18 homes- Nazareth Housing Services in the amount of $100,000 to complete 4 - 5 homes- Oakland Planning &amp; Development Corporation in the amount of $200,000 to complete 7 – 9 homes- Rebuilding Together Pittsburgh in the amount of $200,000 to complete 7 – 9 homes.The HOF HAP provides financial and technical assistance to eligible borrowers for rehabilitating and improving residential owner-occupied properties citywide.  Through HOF HAP, the URA provides deferred 0% interest loans and grants to assist low-income borrowers to: bring their homes into compliance with city codes; undertake energy efficiency improvements; and undertake eligible general property improvements. The annual household income must be less than 50% of the Area Median Income (AMI). The total amount in the HAP line item for the 2018 allocation plan is $2.375 million.Residences at Wood StreetAnother resolution before the URA Board is a HOF Rental Gap Program (RGP) loan agreement in the amount of $380,000 with the Residences at Wood Street for the redevelopment of Wood Street Commons, located in the Central Business District.The HOF RGP is intended to help fund the creation of new affordable housing and/or preserve affordable housing City-wide, specifically targeting households at or below 30% AMI and 50% AMI.Wood Street Commons provides housing and supportive services in the form of 259 single room occupancy units to low income adults. The facility offers valuable services to people living there, including help on becoming more self-sufficient. Additionally, there is 55,000 sq. ft. of commercial space which is occupied by job training services and other non-profit organizations.The loan will allow the Residences at Wood Street to install a new sprinkler system pump, update sprinkler heads throughout the buildings, connect a residential elevator to an emergency generator, install door card-readers on remaining residential units, repair façade sections, install additional security cameras, and rehabilitate the building’s front desk. Parkview ManorThe URA Board will also vote on a HOF RGP loan agreement in the amount of up to $200,000 with Oakland Planning and Development Corporation (OPDC) for the renovation of the Parkview Manor affordable living property.The loan will provide combined construction/permanent financing for the renovation/preservation of this 15-unit (one-bedroom, one-bath) affordable living property for seniors and people with disabilities.With HOF funding, OPDC will complete much-needed renovations and repairs, including replacing the roof, replacing the building’s shared hot water tank, installing new windows throughout the entire building, painting the exterior of the building, and the replacement of individual packaged thermal A/C units for each unit. Work is expected to be completed within six months of loan closing.The HOF funds will be tied to five units at or below 30% AMI.  The building has a Project-Based Section 8 HAP contract. The current tenant portfolio includes 14 residents at or below 30% AMI and 1 at or below 50% AMI.The URA Board of Directors will meet at 2 p.m. on Thursday, February 14, 2019 in the Wherrett Memorial Board Room at 200 Ross Street, 13th floor, Pittsburgh, PA 15219.The HOF is holding five community feedback sessions citywide, starting Tuesday, on its allocation plans. More information is available here. | 7/2/2019 11:51:44 |
| McArdle Roadway to Close for Maintenance | PITTSBURGH, PA (February 7, 2019) The Department of Mobility and Infrastructure is announcing that McArdle Roadway will be closed on February 9, and 10, from 7:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m., to allow a contractor to remove debris along the road between the Liberty Bridge and Grandview Avenue.The work being conducted is preventative maintenance on erosion of the hillside. No posted detours will be provided. Motorists may use the Liberty Tunnel to northbound Route 51 to Woodruff Street to Merrimac Street to navigate around the closure.Those with questions may contact Deputy Director Jeff Skalican at 412-496-5919. | 7/2/2019 11:29:59 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Thursday, February 7, 2019 | Meeting With Chief Of Staff Daniel GilmanTime: 10:00 A.M.Location: Mayor's Conference Room, City-County BuildingMeeting With Tom Dowling &amp; Steve RadickTime: 12:30 P.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County BuildingMeeting With Igor Volsky, Executive Director of Guns Down AmericaTime: 2:00 P.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County BuildingMeeting With Chad RasmussenTime: 3:00 P.M.Location: Mayor's Conference Room, City-County BuildingPittsburgh Ballet Theater 50th Anniversary Season RevealTime: 5:00 P.M.Location: Pittsburgh Ballet Theater, The Strip District | 7/2/2019 09:14:46 |
| Mayor Peduto Names Appointments to Alcosan and Housing Authority | PITTSBURGH, PA (February 8, 2019) Mayor William Peduto has made four appointments to spots on two city-affiliated boards. Last week City Council interviewed two appointments to the board of the Housing Authority City of Pittsburgh. They are Cheryl Gainey, a HACP resident, and Alexander Laroco, a U.S. Navy veteran. Next week he will forward to Council two appointments to Alcosan, a joint city-county authority.  The city’s appointments are Shannah Tharp Gilliam, director of research and evaluation at Homewood Children’s Village, and Brenda Smith, executive director of the Nine Mile Run Watershed Association. (Smith is a reappointment.)“I want to thank all those dedicating their time to serve the public on these important agencies,” Mayor Peduto said. | 8/2/2019 14:04:03 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Friday, February 8, 2019 | Pittsburgh Bureau Of Police Promotion CeremonyTime: 9:30 A.M.Location: Pittsburgh Bureau of Police Training Academy, Allegheny WestMeeting With Michael KutzerTime: 1:00 P.M.Location: Penn Liberty Plaza, The Strip DistrictMeeting With Senator Wayne Fontana, Senator Jay Costa, &amp; County Executive Rich FitzgeraldTime: 2:30 P.M.Location: Office of the County Executive, Allegheny County CourthouseMeeting With Gabriel MorganTime: 3:30 P.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County BuildingDelivering Proclamation To Pittsburgh Open Squash TournamentTime: 5:45 P.M.Location: The Rivers Club - One Oxford Centre, Central Business DistrictAttending Quantum Theater's Performance Of The "The Gun Show (Can We Talk About This)"Time: 8:00 P.M.Location: Carnegie Library of Homewood, Homewood South | 8/2/2019 08:41:20 |
| Peduto Administration Brings Safety and Customer Protections to Towing Procedures | PITTSBURGH, PA (February 8, 2019) Mayor William Peduto’s administration today issued a request for proposals to bring safety and customer protections to towing procedures for vehicles involved in accidents on city streets. Under the proposal only one towing company would be allowed to operate in each of the city’s six Pittsburgh Bureau of Police zones, keeping towing companies from competing against each other to reach accident sites.  The proposal would set towing rates, require companies to have 7-day-a-week access to their tow pounds, and require the tow pounds to be within two miles of the city border. Tow truck drivers would be required to be properly licensed and insured. Vehicle owners would have the option of calling other other towing companies to retrieve their vehicles if desired. The RFP is the result of months of study by the Peduto administration, its Office of Management and Budget, and the Department of Public Safety. The RFP was posted at the city’s open and transparent procurement website Beacon, and a copy of it is available here.Interested companies have until March 8 to respond. | 8/2/2019 14:27:14 |
| URA to Boost City's One Step Program for Business Accessibility | PITTSBURGH, PA (February 8, 2019) The Urban Redevelopment Authority Board of Directors will consider a resolution next week that will help small businesses become more accessible to all customers. The Board will vote to waive the URA’s Storefront Renovation Program (SRP) guidelines to allow for exterior accessibility improvements consistent with the City of Pittsburgh’s One Step Program.The URA will take action at its next meeting on Thursday, February 14.The city’s One Step program provides businesses and property owners technical assistance, fee waivers, and guidance to make their business more accessible to customers who use wheelchairs, scooters, and/or who have physical impediments.The SRP is designed to help business owners make improvements to their storefronts and improve the appearance of city neighborhoods' commercial corridors. The program assists business owners by providing a 50% matching grant up to $5,000 for their façade improvement projects. Under the amended guidelines, URA staff will provide financial resources to businesses using the combined One Step Program and URA SRP to make their storefronts accessible."I am excited to expand upon the success of our Storefront Renovation Program to incorporate the important work of the One Step Program,” said Tom Link, director of the URA’s Center for Innovation &amp; Entrepreneurship. “Access for all is a theme we work toward everyday – access to jobs, access to housing, access to quality of life.  The One Step program is core to our mission and we look forward to helping small businesses across the city ensure they are accessible to all our neighbors. I want to thank Mayor Peduto and the city for providing the capital resources to extend this program.”The SRP is funded through a combination of CDBG, City and state funds; including $100,000 from City 2018-2019 CDBG funds. The URA Board of Directors will meet at 2 p.m. on Thursday, February 14, 2019 in the Wherrett Memorial Board Room at 200 Ross Street, 13th floor, Pittsburgh, PA 15219.Contacts:Gigi Saladna, Chief Communications Officer, Urban Redevelopment Authority of Pittsburgh, 412.255.6434, gsaladna@ura.orgTimothy McNulty, Communications Director, City of Pittsburgh, 412.660.1999, timothy.mcnulty@pittsburghpa.gov | 8/2/2019 09:23:58 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Saturday, February 9, 2019 | Saturday, February 9, 2019Speaking At Dr. Cyril Wecht Humanitarian AwardsTime: 12:30 P.M.Location: 4428 Liberty Avenue, BloomfieldSunday, February 10, 2019Speaking At TOMS End Gun Violence EventTime: 6:30 P.M.Location: Repair The World - Broad Street, East Liberty | 9/2/2019 13:44:21 |
| City Crews Preparing for Snow Event | PITTSBURGH, PA (February 10, 2019) Department of Public Works crews are preparing for snowfall predicted for this evening that may impact the Monday morning commute.The National Weather Service is forecasting 1.5 to 2 inches of snow beginning between 3 and 6 p.m. tonight and lasting through 9 a.m. Monday. DPW crews will begin their overnight work four hours early, beginning their shift at 6 p.m. instead of 10 p.m. In all, 48 trucks will be deployed overnight through tomorrow morning's rush hour, when temperatures are expected to return to above freezing and the precipitation converts to rain.The city's new Snow Plow Tracker, which returned to service January 31, will be activated. Residents should note that not all DPW trucks have been upgraded with the new tracker technology so some streets will be treated by city crews but not be shown as such on the tracker site. | 10/2/2019 11:47:24 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Monday, February 11, 2019 | Achieva Random Acts Of Kindness Press ConferenceTime: 10:00 A.M.Location: 711 Bingham Street, South Side FlatsMeeting With ACH Clear PathwaysTime: 2:00 P.M.Location: Mayor's Conference Room, City-County BuildingMeeting With Northern Ireland Bureau Director Norman HoustonTime: 3:30 P.M.Location: Mayor's Conference Room, City-County BuildingMeeting With Students From School District Of Pittsburgh Youth CouncilTime: 5:00 P.M.Location: City-County Building, Central Business District | 11/2/2019 08:38:38 |
| Statement on Passing of City ADA Coordinator Richard Meritzer | PITTSBURGH, PA (February 11, 2019) Following is a statement by Mayor William Peduto on the passing of longtime Department of City Planning employee Richard Meritzer: “Richard Meritzer dedicated his life to serving others, and served the residents of Pittsburgh for more than 35 years, lately as our lead Americans with Disabilities Act coordinator. He will be greatly missed by me and other city employees, and by communities he worked so closely with over the decades.” | 11/2/2019 13:56:24 |
| City Receives Funding for New Blue Recycling Bins | PITTSBURGH, PA (February 12, 2019) The City of Pittsburgh Department of Public Works introduced legislation to City Council today to receive a $350,000 grant from the state Department of Environmental Protection for the purchase of 13,000 residential curbside recycling containers. Once approved, the funding will allow DPW to purchase the blue bins and distribute them to residents over the next two years. In an earlier pilot program more than 5,200 of the 32-gallon bins were distributed, largely in the North Side. Distribution plans for the new bins and sign-up procedures have not yet been finalized.The grant funding from DEP will also help pay for a recycling education program consisting of printed materials, website updates and a social media campaign. DPW will also purchase stickers to be applied to the curbside container lids detailing what can and cannot be recycled. | 12/2/2019 11:08:09 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Tuesday, February 12, 2019 | No public events scheduled. | 12/2/2019 09:28:29 |
| Communication and Language Access Plan Consultants Chosen | PITTSBURGH, PA (February 12, 2019)  The City of Pittsburgh and Office of Mayor William Peduto are pleased to report that the city has teamed up with Bromberg &amp; Associates and Federal Compliance Consulting to aid in the rollout of the City’s  Language Access Plan. The City and consultants are moving forward with inclusively addressing the various communication and language needs of our City and community. Thank you to The Heinz Endowments for funding and making this initiative a reality.   “Initiatives like this are essential to making Pittsburgh a welcoming place for all, no matter what communication or language needs you to have,” said Mayor William Peduto. “Enhancing our communication and language access services will help ensure that residents genuinely have the ability to obtain the information and services available to them.”  Carmen Anderson, director of Equity and Social Justice for the Endowments, agreed, describing the Language Access Plan as “an important step in meeting Pittsburgh’s obligation to provide equitable access to services for all members of the community.”  “The initiative will the provide the tools and other supports these residents need to help them thrive in the city,” she said.  The communication and Language Access consultants are tasked with creating an integration strategy for the various languages and communication needs reflected in the city. The Implementation of this plan will utilize enhanced and expanded interpretation services to increase accessibility for residents who have a disability, are English language learners, or have limited proficiency in the English language.   The consultants will be working with the Mayor’s office Special Initiatives Manager Feyisola Alabi, representatives from each city department, and the members of the Communication and Language Access Task Force. The consultants will facilitate Task Force meetings over the next four to six months. Meetings will evaluate departmental needs, teach best practices for communication and language access, provide training, and create strategies for how each city department can best assist all residents. The consultants and Task Force members will identify “key” city documents in need of being translated into Pittsburgh’s most commonly spoken languages. The city has identified languages such as Spanish, Nepali, Burmese, and Kurdish to name a few but through language access, the city will be able to translate in up to 200 various languages.  Each city department will provide translation services in those mentioned above most commonly spoken languages. Each department will also be instructed to offer translation options for a broader selection of languages, and to provide aid for the hard of hearing, deaf, and blind communities. The Bromberg &amp; Associates and Federal Compliance consultants have created a list of goals regarding the Communication and Language Access Plan which includes assisting city departments with identifying and complying best practices for language access expansion. Determine steps for monitoring, evaluating, and updating the language access plan. An additional goal is to ensure there are tools to provide website and city facility accessibility for LEP (Limited English Proficiency) customers. | 12/2/2019 11:29:32 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Wednesday, February 13, 2019 | Pennsylvania Municipal League Monthly CallTime: 10:00 A.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County BuildingMeeting With Study Team From Southwest PA Partnership For Mobility CouncilTime: 11:30 A.M.Location: Mayor's Conference Room, City-County BuildingStopping For A Cup Of Coffee At The Muddy Cup Opening DayTime: 12:30 P.M.Location: 1555 Broadway Avenue, BeechviewVisit To Brashear High School's Poster Session On Alternative Energy OptionsTime: 1:00 P.M.Location: Brashear High School, BeechviewWeekly Meeting With Director Of Public Safety Wendell Hissrich &amp; Chief Of Police Scott SchubertTime: 2:00 P.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County BuildingMeeting With Kaylee WernerTime: 3:30 P.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County BuildingOne Northside Annual CelebrationTime: 5:30 P.M.Location: Heinz Field, North Shore | 13/2/2019 09:11:04 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Thursday, February 14, 2019 | Contemporary Craft Building OpeningTime: 10:00 A.M.Location: 5637 Butler Street, Upper LawrencevillePhone Call With Jack RosenTime: 11:30 A.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County BuildingMeeting With Josiah GilliamTime: 1:00 P.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County BuildingMeeting With Gabriella va Rij Founder Of The Dare to be Kind MovementTime: 2:00 P.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County BuildingInterview With Michael WereschaginTime: 2:30 P.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County BuildingWeekly Scheduling MeetingTime: 3:30 P.M.Location: Mayor's Conference Room, City-County BuildingPittsburgh International Auto Show's 75th Annual "Dancing with the Cars" Charity FundraiserTime: 5:30 P.M.Location: David L. Lawrence Convention Center, Central Business District | 14/2/2019 09:04:27 |
| McArdle Roadway in Mount Washington Closed Saturday | PITTSBURGH, PA (February 15, 2019) The City of Pittsburgh Department of Mobility and Infrastructure is announcing that McArdle Roadway will be closed on Saturday, February 16, from 7:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. to allow a contractor to remove debris along the road. A full closure of McArdle will be in place between the Liberty Bridge and Grandview Avenue. A single lane closure will be in place between the Liberty Bridge and Arlington Avenue. The work being conducted is preventative maintenance for the erosion of the hillside. No posted detours will be provided. Motorists may use the Liberty Tunnel to northbound Route 51 to Woodruff Street to Merrimac Street to navigate around the closure.  Those with questions may contact Deputy DOMI Director Jeff Skalican at 412-496-5919. | 15/2/2019 14:36:25 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Friday, February 15, 2019 | Lunch With Staff At Arnold's TeaTime: 12:00 P.M.Location: 502 East Ohio Street, East AlleghenyMeeting With Allegheny County Executive Rich FitzgeraldTime: 2:00 P.M.Location: Office of the County Executive, Allegheny County CourthouseInterview With The Pittsburgh Post-Gazette's Mark BelkoTime: 3:00 P.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County BuildingMeeting With Mickey McManusTime: 3:30 P.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County BuildingSpeaking At Mendelssohn Choir PerformanceTime: 7:15 P.M.Location: Ebenezer Baptist Church, Middle HillBraveheart Foundation's Fundraiser "An Evening With Jackie Evancho"Time: 7:45 P.M.Location: August Wilson Center, Central Business District | 15/2/2019 09:54:18 |
| Weekend Street Closure on Herron Avenue in Polish Hill | PITTSBURGH, PA (February 15, 2019) The Pittsburgh Water &amp; Sewer Authority has announced that a segment of Herron Avenue between Bigelow Boulevard and Brererton Street will be closed this weekend for street paving.A paving contractor will be working on the street from 7 p.m. this evening through noon on Sunday, February 17.PWSA does not anticipate an interruption in water service. Pedestrian access will be maintained. | 15/2/2019 14:26:30 |
| Third Circuit Rules For Welcoming Cities | PITTSBURGH, PA (February 15, 2019) In another major legal victory for cities such as Pittsburgh that have policies that are welcoming to immigrants, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit ruled today that the Justice Department cannot withhold public safety funding from Philadelphia due to its immigration policies.The Court ruled that it was unconstitutional for the Justice Department to place immigration-related conditions on Philadelphia if the city were to receive Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant (JAG) funding. Philadelphia Mayor Jim Kenney hailed the ruling, as did Mayor William Peduto."Pittsburgh police are here to protect all residents, including our newest ones, and are not deputized members of a national police force as the Trump admiinistration seems to think they are. This has been shown time and again by our nation's courts, and will continue to allow Pittsburgh, Philadelphia and other cities to do what is right for all those seeking to come to our country to build better lives for themselves and their families," Mayor Peduto said. | 15/2/2019 15:00:42 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Saturday and Sunday, February 16-17, 2019 | Saturday, February 16, 2019No public events scheduled.Sunday, February 17, 2019Lunar New Year ParadeTime: 11:00 A.M.Location: Murray Avenue, Squirrel Hill | 16/2/2019 10:17:18 |
| Landslide Work Begins in Spring Hill | PITTSBURGH, PA (February 18, 2019) The City of Pittsburgh Department of Mobility and Infrastructure is pleased to announce the commencement of construction of the Diana Street wall and street following several months of extensive geotechnical analysis and engineering design. The $900,000 project will remediate a significant landslide that occurred in February 2018 requiring the closure of a short segment of Diana Street in the vicinity of Ives Way.Diana Street construction will begin today and last approximately six months. The community will initially see construction staging followed by clearance of the vegetation and preparation of the slope prior to construction of the wall.Diana Street is one of several streets affected by landslides over the last year of record breaking wet weather. Like the $1 million response to the Greenleaf Street landslide in West End last year, this represents a significant investment in slide remediation. Several smaller projects have been completed over the past year with a number more in design. More than $8 million of local capital will be invested this year to protect and restore public rights of way. | 18/2/2019 09:39:31 |
| Peduto Administration Launches $2 Million Fund to Upgrade Child Care Facilities | PITTSBURGH, PA (February 18, 2019) Mayor William Peduto’s administration is introducing a $2 million fund to boost the quality of early learning and Pre-K within the city by improving child care facilities.The City of Pittsburgh Childcare Quality Fund, being introduced to Pittsburgh City Council tomorrow, will provide grants to upgrade and improve child care facilities and help them obtain high quality designations from the state. The program and facilities upgrades that are required for a high quality designation are costly and can prove to be especially challenging for programs serving low and moderate income families.Currently only 19% of Pittsburgh child care facilities have reached the high quality designation of STAR 3 or STAR 4 using Pennsylvania’s Quality Rating and Improvement System Keystone STARS. Programs that are with this designation follow Pennsylvania’s Early Learning Standards and employ staff who have extensive education and training in child development and education.“I am committed to ensuring that all children in the City of Pittsburgh have access to high quality early learning and Pre-K. This grant fund will provide child care facilities with the means to improve their programs and will build the number of quality seats that we have in the City,” Mayor Peduto said. “This is a big step toward my goal of offering universal Pre-K.”High quality facilities provide a stimulating, safe and nurturing environment for children that prepares them for school and to reach their full potential. Reaching a high quality designation not only ensures that children are getting the support they need to thrive: it also enables facilities to become more financially stable through increased child care subsidy rates. High quality facilities can tap into additional funding streams such as Early Head Start, Head Start and Pre-K Counts which enable facilities to serve additional low and moderate income families within their programs.The funding will be administered by The Alliance for Infants and Toddlers, a partner of the Allegheny County Early Learning Resource Center region 5, with oversight by a committee of City of Pittsburgh officials and experts. The Pennsylvania Department of Human Services Office of Child Development and Early Learning announced last year the creation of Early Learning Resource Centers (ELRC) to provide residents and child care facilities with one-stop hubs for early education and child care needs. Within Allegheny County the ELRC will be jointly operated and administered via three partners: the Allegheny County Department of Human Services, Trying Together and the Alliance for Infants and Toddlers. The Allegheny County ELRC will be in charge of providing coaching and technical support for programs wishing to participate and for distributing the city’s $2 million in grant funding.Allegheny County’s ELRC will launch on July 1 of this year. Once established, the city’s Childcare Quality Fund will assist facilities with upgrades including:- Roof repair/replacement- Window repair/replacement- HVAC repair/replacement- Plumbing repair/replacement- Flooring repair/replacement- Mold testing/remediation- Lead testing/remediation- Fire suppression systems/sprinklers- Playground equipment installation- Playground surfacing- Fencing and installation- Security cameras and systems- Painting repair/repainting- Retrofitting areas of facility to open new classroomsThe fund will also support programmatic upgrades including:- Curriculum and related materials- Child Assessment instrument costs- Professional Development for staff- Literacy materials- Fine and gross motor materials- Dramatic play materials- STEAM materials- Child sized furniture- Child safety materials- Mobile handwashing sinks- Mentor program costs | 18/2/2019 13:10:04 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Monday, February 18, 2019 | Meeting with Mark KamletTime: 12:30 P.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County BuildingMeeting with Chief of Staff Dan Gilman and Deputy Chief of Staff Majestic LaneTime: 1:30 P.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County BuildingInterview With CityLab's Brentin MockTime: 2:00 P.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County BuildingMeeting With Communications Manager Tim McNultyTime: 2:30 P.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County BuildingMeeting with Chief of Staff Dan Gilman and Director Karina RicksTime: 3:30 P.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County Building | 18/2/2019 09:12:43 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Tuesday, February 19, 2019 | Presenting Proclamation Celebrating Pittsburgh Icon August WilsonTime: 1:00 P.M.Location: Mayor's Conference Room, City-County BuildingMeeting With Allegheny County Executive Rich Fitzgerald, Port Authority Of Allegheny County CEO Katharine Kelleman, &amp; Director Of Mobility &amp; Infrastructure Karina RicksTime: 3:00 P.M.Location: Mayor's Conference Room, City-County BuildingSustainable Pittsburgh's Welcome Reception For Joylette PortlockTime: 4:00 P.M.Location: Hotel Monaco, Central Business District | 19/2/2019 08:22:20 |
| Media Advisory: Mayor William Peduto to Honor August Wilson | Media AdvisoryPITTSBURGH, PA (February 19, 2019) This afternoon Mayor William Peduto will present a proclamation honoring the late August Wilson to his family, August Wilson House Board members, and August Wilson Center staff.  WHO: Paul Ellis, Ronald Lee Newman Managing-Director August Wilson Center, CAPA students Amani Howe and Jamaica Johnson, Jamal Wali, and August Wilson House Board Members WHERE: Mayor's Conference Room, 5th Floor, City-County Building WHEN: 1:00 p.m., Tuesday, February 19, 2019 | 19/2/2019 08:31:58 |
| City of Pittsburgh Prepares for Wednesday Morning Snow Event | PITTSBURGH, PA (February 19, 2019) Motorists are warned to use caution and expect snowy and icy conditions for Wednesday morning’s commute, due to snow that is expected to fall around 5 a.m., followed by freezing rain. Department of Public Works will be treating streets overnight and then switching to plow mode once snow begins to accumulate. DPW’s night turn crews will begin prepping roads just after midnight and daylight crews that normally begin work at 6 a.m. will be brought in four hours early at 2 a.m. to supplement their work. In all DPW will have about 71 vehicles prepping city streets overnight, and when significant snowfall occurs another 36 vehicles with plows will be added to the effort. The forecast is for 2-4 inches of snow beginning around 5 a.m., followed by sleet and freezing rain from 9 to 11 a.m., which will then turn to rain. Temperatures are expected to keep rising through the afternoon and evening, making the afternoon rush hour an easier commute. The morning commute is another story. “Drivers need to proceed with caution and choose the best route in getting to work or other destinations. Those living on or near hillsides should consider going a little out of their way to stay on level ground whenever possible,” DPW Director Mike Gable said. Public Safety is prepared for the snow event. Emergency Medical Services will have four-wheel drive vehicles in service. Most all of the Pittsburgh Bureau of Police vehicles are already all-wheel drive, and officers will be ready to respond to all calls for assistance. The Pittsburgh Bureau of Fire, as always, is also prepared to respond to any emergencies, including weather-related events. For information on alerts and road closures, please follow Public Safety on Facebook and Twitter (@PghPublicSafety). The Public Information Office will utilize social media and other means to provide information in a timely manner.  The city's new Snow Plow Tracker, which returned to service January 31, will be activated. Residents should note that not all DPW trucks have been upgraded with the new tracker technology so some streets will be treated by city crews but not be shown as such on the tracker site. | 19/2/2019 16:28:49 |
| Media Advisory: Press Conference on City's First Clean Construction Project | For Planning Purposes OnlyPITTSBURGH, PA (February 20, 2019) Mayor William Peduto and the City’s Department of Mobility and Infrastructure will host a press conference tomorrow morning, Thursday, February 21, to celebrate the first project under the city’s “Clean Construction” ordinance. The event will be held at the site of the McFarren Street bridge in the city’s Duck Hollow area in Squirrel Hill South. WHO: Mayor William Peduto  Councilman Corey O’Connor DOMI officials Group Against Smog and Pollution (GASP) officials WHERE: Browns Hill Road at McFarren Street, near Monongahela River (roughly under the Homestead Grays Bridge, on city side) WHEN: 11 a.m., Thursday, February 21, 2019 | 20/2/2019 14:55:32 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Wednesday, February 20, 2019 | Interview With American Sustainability Series' Alex Wynne-JonesTime: 11:00 A.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County BuildingWeekly Meeting With Director Of Public Safety Wendell Hissrich &amp; Chief Of Police Scott SchubertTime: 2:00 P.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County BuildingMeeting With Tony PedutoTime: 3:00 P.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County BuildingMeeting With City Solicitor Yvonne HiltonTime: 3:30 P.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County BuildingMeeting With Larry Ceisler &amp; Sade Olanipekun-LewisTime: 4:00 P.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County BuildingPittsburgh Post Gazette's 83rd Annual Dapper Dan DinnerTime: 6:00 P.M.Location: David L. Lawrence Convention Center, Central Business District | 20/2/2019 08:19:23 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Thursday, February 21, 2019 | Clean Construction Project Press ConferenceTime: 11:00 A.M.Location: Browns Hill Road at McFarren Street, Squirrel Hill South - Swisshelm Park BorderMeeting With Allegheny County Executive Rich FitzgeraldTime: 3:00 P.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County BuildingMeeting with County Executive Fitzgerald &amp; Bobby ZappalaTime: 4:00 P.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County BuildingWeekly Scheduling MeetingTime: 4:30 P.M.Location: Mayor's Conference Room, City-County Building | 21/2/2019 08:55:43 |
| Bridge in Duck Hollow to be City's First Clean Construction Project | PITTSBURGH, PA (February 21, 2019) The City of Pittsburgh Department of Mobility and Infrastructure is set to begin reconstruction of the McFarren Street Bridge over Nine Mile Run, which is the first such project to be performed following the City’s “Clean Construction” guidelines. The guidelines require all city government construction projects costing $2.5 million and above to use diesel emission control strategies on construction vehicles, including the use of ultra-low sulfur diesel fuel. The legislation requires the use of best available control technology, such as a diesel particulate filter, on all on-road vehicles, like dump trucks, and off-road equipment, such as backhoes and bulldozers, that are involved in the project. The Clean Construction guidelines were introduced by then City Councilman William Peduto in 2011 and then revised in 2016 to make them easier to follow for contractors. The McFarren Bridge project in the city’s Duck Hollow neighborhood is the first major project to come under the revised guidelines. “This project allows the City of Pittsburgh to be a model for construction activities that are responsible to both the planet and our budget’s bottom line,” Mayor Peduto said. The legislation has long been supported by Group Against Smog and Pollution (GASP), which notes that the construction industry is the largest user of diesel engines, which generate a third of all land-based, non-road nitrogen oxide emissions. “We are happy to finally see a City project include the clean construction requirements," said Rachel Filippini, Executive Director of Group Against Smog and Pollution. "We know that diesel particulate matter poses one of the greatest cancer risks from any toxic outdoor air pollutant and that the black carbon found in diesel pollution is a potent global warming agent.” GASP is pushing for others to adopt similar standards. “This project has been a long time coming and represents an important first step in advancing greener construction in Pittsburgh," added Filippini. "While we think the city’s clean construction legislation is important, its impact is unfortunately limited. To have a greater impact, we will need the Urban Redevelopment Authority, Pittsburgh Water and Sewer Authority—and other groups that undertake considerably more activity than the city—to also adopt the policy.” A new steel girder bridge will be constructed to provide access to the Duck Hollow neighborhood. The bridge will carry two lanes of traffic and one side with a sidewalk.  The new bridge will connect Old Browns Hill Road with McFarren Street, upstream of the existing Second Avenue Bridge and the CSX Railroad Bridge. The new bridge will replace the existing Second Avenue Bridge which has an 11 ton weight restriction. Access to the neighborhood will be maintained throughout construction. Construction is expected to begin in May and is expected to be complete in the summer of 2020. | 21/2/2019 09:52:30 |
| Department of Mobility and Infrastructure Intervenes in Norfolk Southern Plans for North Side | PITTSBURGH, PA (February 21, 2019) The City of Pittsburgh Department of Mobility and Infrastructure (DOMI) has issued a letter to the Public Utility Commission regarding a proposal by Norfolk Southern to elevate bridges through North Side neighborhoods. DOMI is asking Norfolk Southern to provide alternative plans to protect North Side neighborhoods and residents, the historic nature of the area, pedestrian safety, air quality and other factors, and for the railroad to be more responsive to City requests on the matter. Attached is: The letter to PUC Secretary Chiavetta and a protest the city Law Department filed with the PUC on the project two weeks ago. | 21/2/2019 08:42:51 |
| Condemned Home in Perry North Collapses | PITTSBURGH, PA (February 22, 2019) A condemned home at 45 Semicir Street in Perry North that the City ordered to be evacuated a year ago collapsed today. No one was injured, and inspectors from the Department of Permits, Licenses and Inspections (PLI) are responding to the situation. The home was not demolished since the hillside was insecure and it was not safe for the home to be taken down by contractors. Demolishing it also could have further eroded the hillside, endangering other structures on the street. For the same reasons the now-collapsed structure will be left there until it can be safely cleared away. The City's Department of Mobility and Infrastructure (DOMI) announced this week that engineers completed geotechnical borings on Semicir Street to assess the condition of the hillside. Plans for retaining the hillside will be completed in an estimated three months, and remediation to stabilize it is expected to commence two months after design completion. Following record rainfall over the past 18 months landslides have surged in Pittsburgh and other communities in Western Pennsylvania. In Pittsburgh, PLI oversees homes and properties affected by landslides, while DOMI oversees roads affected by them. | 22/2/2019 10:28:44 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Friday, February 22, 2019 | 6th Annual Guest Reader Day At Miller Elementary SchoolTime: 10:00 A.M.Location: Miller Elementary School, Bedford-DwellingsMeeting With Chief Of Staff Daniel GilmanTime: 11:30 A.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County BuildingPresenting Mayor Sophie Masloff Employee Of The Month AwardTime: 1:30 P.M.Location: Mayor's Conference Room, City-County BuildingFilming Video For Downtown Community Development CorporationTime: 2:00 P.M.Location: Mayor's Conference Room, City-County BuildingInterview With KDKA's Marty GriffinTime: 3:30 P.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County Building | 22/2/2019 08:50:21 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Saturday, February 23, 2019 | PITTSBURGH, PA (February 23, 2019) Mayor William Peduto travels today to the 33rd annual International Mayor’s Conference in Israel, a global meeting of government, technology and energy leaders that studies leading examples of sustainable development. While attending the conference in Jerusalem and Tel Aviv, Mayor Peduto will honor the 11 victims of the October 27 massacre at the Tree of Life synagogue in Squirrel Hill, which was the deadliest act of anti-Semitism in U.S. history. Organizers are paying all costs for travel. No city taxpayer dollars are being spent. Twenty-five mayors from around the world are participating.  The conference is presented by the American Jewish Congress, the American Council for World Jewry, the Israeli Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and the Federation of Local Authorities in Israel.  The Mayor returns to the United States on Friday. Mayor William Peduto’s Public Schedule, Saturday, February 23, 2019Flight to Israel Time: Noon | 23/2/2019 20:03:11 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Sunday, February 24, 2019 | PITTSBURGH, PA (February 24, 2019) Mayor William Peduto travels today to the 33rd annual Isreal International Mayor’s Conference in Israel, a global meeting of government, technology and energy leaders that studies leading examples of sustainable development. Arrive in JerusalemTime: 12:00 P.M. Ceremonial Olive Tree Planting at Pittsburgh Tree of Life Memorial &amp; visit  9-11 MemorialTime: 1:15 P.M.Meeting with Jerusalem Post &amp; other mediaTime: 3:00 P.M. Visit to Church of the Holy SepulchreTime: 4:30 P.M.Meeting of Mayor's with Mayor Moshe Lion of Jerusalem &amp; Jerusalem officialsTime 6:00 P.M.Walking tour of JerusalemTime: 6:30 P.M. | 24/2/2019 20:17:14 |
| State Funding Awarded for Jefferson Recreation Center in Central Northside | PITTSBURGH, PA (February 25, 2019) Gov. Tom Wolf today announced the awarding of $402,000 for the rehabilitation of Jefferson Recreation Center in the Central Northside.The money comes from the Department of Community and Economic Development (DCED) Keystone Communities program, which supports local initiatives from around the state that grow and stabilize neighborhoods and communities, encourage the creation of partnerships between the public and private sectors in the community, and enhance the overall quality of life for residents.A press release from the Governor's office said the $402,000 will support a new roof, windows, doors, masonry restoration, and ADA upgrades to the recreation center, as well as new playground equipment and basketball court upgrades. | 25/2/2019 14:14:46 |
| America Saves Week | PITTSBURGH, PA (February 25, 2019) The City of Pittsburgh is proud to support and participate in America Saves Week (February 25 – March 2) . America Saves Week brings together diverse nonprofit, government, academic, and business groups to encourage and support Americans to save effectively. America Saves Week takes place across the country with thousands of partner organizations planning events and activities to help Americans Save Effectively. Locally in the City of Pittsburgh and Allegheny County, ‘Fund My Future’ is the ‘America Saves Week’ Partner. Fund my Future is an incentivized savings program for all children in Allegheny County run by the Propel Schools Foundation.  The program helps families save by providing convenient deposit locations at community facilities, and entering each saver in a monthly raffle where 1 prize of $1000 and 30 prizes of $50 are given away. During America Saves Week a special additional raffle prize will be offered of $100 per day. On February 27, Propel Foundation will be in the City County Building Lobby to take sign ups for new savers from 10:00 a.m. to 2:00 p.m.  More information about Fund My Future and the America Saves Week Special Incentive can be found at www.fundmyfuturepgh.org | 25/2/2019 09:58:53 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Monday, February 25, 2019 | PITTSBURGH, PA (February 25, 2019) Mayor William Peduto is in Jerusalem today for the 33rd annual Israel International Mayor’s Conference, a global meeting of government, technology and energy leaders that studies leading examples of sustainable development. While attending the conference in Jerusalem and Tel Aviv, Mayor Peduto is honoring the 11 victims of the October 27 massacre at the Tree of Life synagogue in Squirrel Hill, which was the deadliest act of anti-Semitism in U.S. history. Organizers are paying all costs for travel. No city taxpayer dollars are being spent. The conference is presented by the American Jewish Congress, the American Council for World Jewry, the Israeli Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and the Federation of Local Authorities in Israel.  The Mayor returns to the United States on Friday. Mayor William Peduto’s Public Schedule, Monday, February 25, 2019: Tour of Yad Vashem, National Holocaust Museum Time: 8:30 a.m. Lunch and discussion on cybersecurity with Check Point Software Technologies  Time: 11:45 a.m. Location: Ministry of Foreign Affairs | 25/2/2019 14:34:12 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Tuesday, February 26, 2019 | PITTSBURGH, PA (February 26, 2019) Mayor William Peduto is in Jerusalem today for the 33rd annual Israel International Mayor’s Conference, a global meeting of government, technology and energy leaders that studies leading examples of sustainable development. While attending the conference in Jerusalem and Tel Aviv, Mayor Peduto is honoring the 11 victims of the October 27 massacre at the Tree of Life synagogue in Squirrel Hill, which was the deadliest act of anti-Semitism in U.S. history. Organizers are paying all costs for travel. No city taxpayer dollars are being spent. The conference is presented by the American Jewish Congress, the American Council for World Jewry, the Israeli Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and the Federation of Local Authorities in Israel.  The Mayor returns to the United States on Friday. Mayor William Peduto’s Public Schedule, Tuesday, February 26, 2019 Opening of the Trade at the Tel Aviv Stock Exchange Time: 9:45 a.m. Presentation of Safe and Smart City Command &amp; Control System by Octopus, a cloud-enabled physical security information management system Time: 10:15 a.m. Presentation on Using Cyber Defense Protection methods for Smart Cities in order to create a safer place for citizens, led by R-MOR, an Israeli cyber and data security company Time: 10:50 a.m. Keynote address by Imad Telhami, Chairman, Takwin VC, a venture capital firm making investments in high-tech companies run by Arab entrepreneurs in Israel Time: 11:20 a.m. Remarks by Eitan Bremler, co-founder of Safe-T, a firm that provides solutions to cities seeking to protect files and data Time: 12:40 p.m.Remarks by Oren Shoval, CTO &amp; co-founder of Via, a transportation network and ride-sharing firm with projects in Paris, the United Kingdom, Austin and Amsterdam Time: 1 p.m. Visit to Tel Aviv Smart City Command Center, which provides security for residents using camera-based command and control technology, panic buttons and other technologies Time: 6 p.m. Reception with Mayor of Tel Aviv, Ron Huldai Time: 7 p.m. | 26/2/2019 14:37:57 |
| City Resources Available for Those Experiencing Power Outages | PITTSBURGH, PA (February 26, 2019) City facilities remain open to serve as warming centers for those still experiencing power outages from the weekend’s severe winds. Citiparks recreation centers and Healthy Active Living Centers are open in most cases until this evening. On the North Side, the Allegheny Center Alliance Church and the Red Cross have teamed up to offer an additional warming center, which can serve as an overnight shelter if necessary. The church is located at the corner of East Ohio and East Commons streets.  The Public Safety Department advises that anyone experiencing a weather-related emergency, or is concerned about the well-being of neighbors, should call 911. A complete listing of Citiparks Healthy Active Living Centers with addresses and phone numbers can be found at: http://pittsburghpa.gov/citiparks/senior-centersCitiparks rec center hours of operation are as follows: Brookline and Phillips are open 10 a.m. to 9 p.m.; Ammon, Jefferson, Ormsby, Paulson and Warrington are open from Noon to 8 p.m.; Magee is open Noon to 9 p.m.; and West Penn:  9 a.m. to 9 p.m. A complete listing of all rec centers, addresses, phone numbers and hours can be found at: http://pittsburghpa.gov/citiparks/rec-centers-info | 26/2/2019 11:10:40 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Wednesday, February 27, 2019 | PITTSBURGH, PA (February 27, 2019) Mayor William Peduto is in Jerusalem today for the 33rd annual Israel International Mayor’s Conference, a global meeting of government, technology and energy leaders that studies leading examples of sustainable development. While attending the conference in Jerusalem and Tel Aviv, Mayor Peduto is honoring the 11 victims of the October 27 massacre at the Tree of Life synagogue in Squirrel Hill, which was the deadliest act of anti-Semitism in U.S. history. He is appearing on panels today to discuss how mayors respond to hate speech and hate crimes, and how municipal leaders react to security crises, in a forum presented by the United Nations Security Council Counter-Terrorism Committee Executive Directorate. Other discussions today are part of MuniWorld 2019: Global Brainstorming on Smart Cities and Urban Security. Organizers are paying all costs for travel. No city taxpayer dollars are being spent. The conference is presented by the American Jewish Congress, the American Council for World Jewry, the Israeli Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and the Federation of Local Authorities in Israel.  The Mayor returns to the United States on Friday. Mayor William Peduto’s Public Schedule, Wednesday, February 27, 2019: Remarks by Ehud Olmert, former Prime Minister of Israel Time: 9 a.m. Presentation on Safe Cities Using Social Media, let by R-MOR, a leader Israeli security firm Time: 9:30 a.m. Presentation on Challenges and Solutions of Drones in Urban Environments Time: 10:15 a.m. Panel on municipal leadership during and after security crises, presented by the United Nations Security Council Counter-Terrorism Committee Executive Directorate. Speakers include Mayor Peduto and Roland Ries, Mayor of Strasbourg, France. Time: 1:30 p.m. Remarks by Roei Deutsch, founder of the online instruction firm Jolt Time: 3 p.m. Presentation on building smart and safe cities by Or Gil of Carbyne, which provides public safety and 911 technology Time: 3:40 p.m. Panel discussion on establishing an international coalition of mayors combating hate speech and hate crimes, with speakers including Mayor Peduto; Haim Bibas, Mayor of Modi'in Maccabim-Reut, Israel; and Jack Rosen, chairman of the American Jewish Congress. Time: 4:30 p.m. | 27/2/2019 13:50:10 |
| Shiras Avenue to Close for Repairs Next Week | PITTSBURGH, PA (February 27, 2019) The City of Pittsburgh Department of Mobility and Infrastructure is announcing that Shiras Avenue in Beechview will be closed beginning March 4, at 7:00 a.m., for approximately five days, to allow the Construction Division of the Department of Public Works to construct a retaining wall by the roadway.Posted detours will be provided. Motorists can follow local streets to navigate around the closure. The work is weather dependent.Those with questions may call Acting Supervisor Tom Samstag at 412-782-7630. | 27/2/2019 14:09:45 |
| Mayor William Peduto Applauds House Approval of Gun Safety Measures | PITTSBURGH, PA (February 28, 2019) Mayor William Peduto released the following statement today after the U.S. House of Representatives approved the second of two bills this week expanding background check procedures for firearms purchases. Today’s bill would close the “Charleston Loophole,” so named because the white supremacist who killed nine African-American churchgoers in South Carolina in 2015 had a drug arrest that should have prevented him from buying a gun: “The bipartisan passage of these bills shows that Americans can and will come together to support measures to keep guns away from those seeking to kill. Background checks are supported by huge majorities of Americans, and these measures add to the momentum of those in Pittsburgh and across the country pushing for more common-sense changes to address the gun violence epidemic.” | 28/2/2019 15:57:02 |
| Pittsburgh's Notable Women Video Series Kicks Off in March | PITTSBURGH, PA (February 28, 2019) The historic accomplishments of Pittsburgh’s extraordinary women are largely unknown and uncelebrated. This March, Pittsburgh’s Notable Women project will kick off, with videos highlighting women in our region who contributed significantly to the shaping of our City. The series was produced by the Mayor’s Office, and numerous interns assisted with selecting subjects to feature, research, and drafting scripts for taping by the City Cable Channel. Staff members of various City departments provided each segment’s narration.      Schedule:March 1 -10:  Dr. Jean Walls, the first African American woman to earn bachelor's and doctorate degrees from Pitt. Link: https://youtu.be/l9JIX7mH88IMarch 11 – 20:  Nonhelema, a Shawnee leader from the 1700s who, although a fierce warrior, lived her life seeking to create peace among tribes and Europeans.  Link: https://youtu.be/L9lI0EOXQVkMarch 21 -31:  Mary Pattison Irwin, emigrant from Northern Ireland who established a thriving rope making business in the 1790s.  Link: https://youtu.be/B5FgMIzJ7eEAdditional segments will be produced in the coming months.  Contact: Gloria Forouzan, Office of the Mayor, 412.255.2632. | 28/2/2019 09:17:16 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Thursday, February 28, 2019 | PITTSBURGH, PA (February 28, 2019) Mayor William Peduto is in Tel Aviv today for the 33rd annual Israel International Mayor’s Conference, a global meeting of government, technology and energy leaders that studies leading examples of sustainable development. While attending the conference in Jerusalem and Tel Aviv, Mayor Peduto is honoring the 11 victims of the October 27 massacre at the Tree of Life synagogue in Squirrel Hill, which was the deadliest act of anti-Semitism in U.S. history. Yesterday he appeared on panels to discuss how mayors respond to hate speech and hate crimes, and how municipal leaders react to security crises, in a forum presented by the United Nations Security Council Counter-Terrorism Committee Executive Directorate. Organizers are paying all costs for travel. No city taxpayer dollars are being spent. The conference is presented by the American Jewish Congress, the American Council for World Jewry, the Israeli Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and the Federation of Local Authorities in Israel.  Other international Mayors attending the conference include: - Khalid Belisle of Belmopan, Belize - Astrid Fodor of Sibiu, Romania - Isidore Gnonlonfoun of Cotonou, Benin - Julian Gold of Beverly Hills, California - Daniel Guerrero of San Pedro Town, Belize - Timbi Pascal Kabore of Soaw, Burkina Faso - Vitali Klitschko of Kiev, Ukraine - Lasha Komakhidze of Batumi, Georgia - Jorge Macchi of Atendende de Vicente Lopez, Argentina - Chiri Babu Maharjan of Lalitpur Metropolitan City, Nepal - Daniel Martinez of Montevideo, Uruguay - Wild Ndipo of Blantyre City, Malawi - Igor Radojicic of Banja Luka, Bosnia and Herzegovina - Zoran Radojicic of Belgrade, Republic of Serbia - Ramon Antonio Ramirez of Alcalde Distrito Municipal Turistico Veron Punta Cana - Claudio Scajola of Imperia, Italy - Bojan Srot of Celje, Slovenia - Ethan Strimling of Portland, Maine - Constantin Toma of Buzau, Romania - Erion Veliaj of Tirana, Albania - Rene Polanco Vidal of Alcaldia, Santo Domingo Norte - Kayanja Vincent de Paul of Entebbe, Uganda - Ko Wen-je of Taipei, Taiwan - Nebojsa Zelenovic of Sabac, Western Serbia The Mayor returns to the United States on Friday. Mayor William Peduto’s Public Schedule, Thursday, February 28, 2019: Visit to Peres Center of Peace and InnovationTime: 9:30 a.m. Visit to Tel Nof Air Force Base Time: 11 a.m. | 28/2/2019 10:42:54 |
| Community-Driven Development in Uptown Seeking Proposals | PITTSBURGH, PA (March 1, 2019) The Urban Redevelopment Authority of Pittsburgh (URA) is requesting proposals from developers and/or development teams to purchase and redevelop a combination of URA and City-owned sites at the intersection of Fifth Avenue and Dinwiddie Street within the Uptown area of the City of Pittsburgh. The goal of this Request for Proposals (RFP) is to implement the community supported vision as identified in the EcoInnovation District (EID) Plan that was adopted by the City Planning Commission in September 2017.  The vision described in the EID Plan calls for an Uptown that repairs the environment and provides its residents with healthy activities and connections to nature; allows everyone to benefit in the greening and growth of the district; serves as a model for sustainable development and renewable energy systems; and moves boldly forward while celebrating its history and unique urban character.Prior to issuing this RFP, the Department of City Planning led a charette and open house event to gather input from community members, stakeholders, and design professionals around the reuse of the site.  A summary of the input gathered is included in the RFP.  Interested developers should plan to attend a pre-proposal conference on Wednesday, March 6, 2019 at noon ET, as private appointments will not be scheduled. The meeting location for the pre-proposal conference will be at 1807 Fifth Avenue, Pittsburgh, PA  15219, currently used as the City’s Department of Public Works warehouse. Responses are due April 10, 2019 at Noon ET. The URA uses Public Purchase, a web-based e-Procurement service for the automatic notification and transmittal of RFPs, RFQs, and bid opportunities at no charge to vendors. All parties interested in responding to this RFP or receiving notifications when the URA releases an opportunity must register with Public Purchase and then register with the URA. Instructions for the two-step registration process can be found on the URA’s website. All questions regarding this RFP should be submitted through Public Purchase.Contacts:Timothy McNulty, Communications Director, Office of Mayor William Peduto, 412-660-1999, timothy.mcnulty@pittsburghpa.govGigi Saladna, Chief Communications Officer, Urban Redevelopment Authority of Pittsburgh, 412-255-6434, gsaladna@ura.org | 1/3/2019 10:03:23 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Friday, March 1, 2019 | PITTSBURGH, PA (March 1, 2019) Mayor William Peduto returned from Tel Aviv today, where he was attending the 33rd annual Israel International Mayor’s Conference, a global meeting of government, technology and energy leaders that studies leading examples of sustainable development. Organizers paid all costs for travel. No city taxpayer dollars were spent. The conference was presented by the American Jewish Congress, the American Council for World Jewry, the Israeli Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and the Federation of Local Authorities in Israel.Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Friday, March 1, 2019:Flight to PittsburghTime: 6:15 a.m. | 1/3/2019 11:54:12 |
| Media Advisory: Mayor William Peduto to Make Major Announcement on Autonomous Vehicles | PITTSBURGH, PA (March 4, 2019) Mayor William Peduto will hold a press conference this morning regarding autonomous vehicles, in an event at the David L. Lawrence Convention Center. WHO: Mayor William Peduto Department of Mobility and Performance Director Karina Ricks Autonomous vehicle industry representatives WHERE: Spirit of Pittsburgh Ballroom B Gallery, 3rd Floor of the David L. Lawrence Convention Center, 1000 Fort Duquesne Blvd, Pittsburgh, PA 15222. WHEN: 10 a.m., Monday, March 4, 2019. | 3/3/2019 14:27:42 |
| City Crews Prepare for Winter Weather Event Today | PITTSBURGH, PA (March 3, 2019) With a forecast today for 2 to 4 inches of snow, starting sometime early this afternoon, the City of Pittsburgh Department of Public Works will begin its shifts at noon today, with night turn personnel coming in early at 6 p.m. to work a 12-hour shift. Snow is expected to taper off around 10 p.m. Initial work by DPW will concentrate on pre-treating secondary streets until the snow actually begins to fall: main road conditions may not deteriorate as quickly as the secondaries, and there is residual salt already on main road surfaces from the winter weather event last week. With temperatures falling in the early Monday morning hours DPW will be applying its blue tinted Magnesium Chloride Rock Salt, which is effective at low temperatures.Light vehicular traffic today should help crews distribute salt materials widely. They will switch to plow mode when and if multiple inches of snow fall. Parks maintenance crews will be called in at 4 a.m. on Monday to attend to sidewalks, parking lots, bridge sidewalks and steps.Later today residents will be able to monitor salting and plowing activity on the city's Snow Plow Tracker site. | 3/3/2019 09:30:41 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Monday, March 4, 2019 | Autonomous Vehicles Press Conference With Department Of Mobility &amp; InfrastructureTime: 10:00 A.M.Location: David L. Lawrence Convention Center, Central Business DistrictMeeting With Allegheny County Executive Rich FitzgeraldTime: 1:00 P.M.Location: Mayor's Conference Room, City-County BuildingMeeting With Director Of Public Safety Wendell HissrichTime: 1:30 P.M.Location: Mayor's Conference Room, City-County BuildingRibbon Cutting For RDC's New Office BuildingTime: 3:00 P.M.Location: Riverfront Landing, The Strip DistrictMeeting With City Solicitor Yvonne HiltonTime: 4:30 P.M.Location: Mayor's Conference Room, City-County Building | 4/3/2019 08:33:36 |
| Mayor William Peduto Issues Transformative Policies for Autonomous Vehicle Testing and Development | PITTSBURGH, PA (March 4, 2019) Mayor William Peduto issued an Executive Order today outlining City objectives and expectations for the safe testing of autonomous vehicles in Pittsburgh, and assigning responsibilities for the development of transparent and constructive reporting guidelines for the growing technology sector.  All five of the prominent entities currently developing autonomous driving systems in the city were on hand for the signing of the order, demonstrating the strong emphasis on partnership that is a Pittsburgh hallmark.   Called the “Pittsburgh Principles,” the order is the first of its kind to be issued by any city worldwide and is a further model of the Pittsburgh’s longtime leadership in the technology, and of the city’s focus on providing safe and inclusive transportation opportunities for all residents.  The Principles include: - Instituting transparent lines of communication between the City and partners testing autonomous vehicles, and annual reports on the implementation of AV policies    - Promoting automated driving systems that encourage high vehicle occupancy with lower or no emissions, and lower cost and equitable transportation options   - Engaging industry leaders and community stakeholders to collaboratively facilitate the further development and deployment of self-driving technology     “Autonomous vehicle technology has the potential to dramatically improve safety on our city streets and yield transformative benefits to equitable access and quality of life for all in our city. This can only happen when industry, agencies and people understand one another and work together,”  Mayor Peduto said.  “My hope is that this Executive Order will not only provide the necessary platform and process to do that for our city, but serve as a model for cities and places across the globe.”   The Executive Order designates the Department of Mobility and Infrastructure (DOMI) as the principal point of contact and directs the Department to collaborate with public agency partners, private sector industry, and general public stakeholders in developing policy around this emergent technology.  The order further instructs the Department to develop guidelines for testing and to report back to the public at least annually on progress in testing and policy development.  In concurrently releasing the testing guidelines and submission process, Karina Ricks, Director of the Department of Mobility and Infrastructure stated, “These guidelines provide a framework for sharing information relevant to policymaking and building the public trust, which is essential to the success of self-driving development and its ultimate deployment in ways that strengthen our cities and communities.”   Raj Rajkumar, professor and co-director of the General Motors-Carnegie Mellon Vehicular Information Technology Collaborative Research Lab, said “This Order and the guidelines help to protect the public while enabling this technology born in Pittsburgh 35 years ago to be tested and matured right here – attracting jobs, opportunities and talent to the City. We thank the Mayor, the Director of DOMI and the City for their vision and leadership in this regard."  The five entities currently developing autonomous driving systems in Pittsburgh are: Aptiv, Argo AI, Aurora Innovation,  Carnegie-Mellon University and Uber.   A copy of the Executive Order is available here. | 4/3/2019 09:07:39 |
| New Artistic Intersection Planned for Ellsworth Avenue | PITTSBURGH, PA (March 5, 2019) The City of Pittsburgh is pleased to announce a new Artistic Intersection in Council District 8.The Public Art and Civic Design Division (PA+CD) of Pittsburgh’s Department of City Planning invites artists, designers, and art collectives to apply for the creation and implementation of the second artistic design intersection led by the City of Pittsburgh. The site for this project is the intersection of Ellsworth and Maryland avenues in Shadyside.The history of Pittsburgh is made of the contributions and influences of many different kinds of people. The Pittsburgh of today works toward the recognition and celebration of the many varied communities that continue to shape the City’s growth and future.  The aim of this project is to create a vibrant gateway into a neighborhood that has been historically and culturally significant to many members of Pittsburgh’s LGBTQIA population, while supporting the work of artists and enhancing the experience of pedestrians. The installation of the artistic intersection this spring will pay respect to the 50th anniversary of the Stonewall Riots in New York City, a landmark event in the history of LGBTQIA rights.With public art, the City of Pittsburgh strives to enhance the built environment, reinforce neighborhood character, unify and activate spaces, create landmarks, and generate dialogue to promote better understanding of current issues. Therefore, as Pittsburgh builds its present and envisions for its future, the City is committed to Public Art as an integral component of Pittsburghers’ way of life.For the call, Artists are asked to submit complete design proposals for this intersection, with a conceptual focus on inclusivity and the LGBTQIA culture of this neighborhood’s past, present, and future. The chosen design will be implemented by the artist in time for Pittsburgh’s annual Pride Week in June.Artists of all experience levels and backgrounds are encouraged to apply. A copy of the Request for Proposals for the project is available here or through the "Bid Opportunities" section of Beacon, the city's procurement site. The submittal deadline is March 29.For general questions about the project contact:Yesica Guerra                                                                                        Public Art and Civic Design ManagerCity of PittsburghDepartment of City Planning200 Ross St. 4th floor, Pittsburgh, PA 15219[p] 412.255.8996[e] yesica.guerra@pittsburghpa.govFor questions about the RFP contact: Dan TobinSourcing SpecialistOffice of Management and BudgetCity-County Building, Room 502414 Grant StreetPittsburgh, PA 15219[p] 412.255.2458 | 5/3/2019 14:09:36 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Tuesday, March 5, 2019 | Meeting With Hayden Rigo &amp; Marlon LindsayTime: 11:00 A.M.Location: Mayor's Conference Room, City-County BuildingKrystal Biotech Grand OpeningTime: 2:00 P.M.Location: 2100 Wharton Street, South Side FlatsMeeting With Brandi FisherTime: 3:30 P.M.Location: Mayor's Conference Room, City-County Building | 5/3/2019 08:21:22 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Wednesday, March 6, 2019 | Meeting With Southwestern Pennsylvania Commission Partnership For MobilityTime: 10:00 A.M.Location: Two Chatham Center, Central Business DistrictWeekly Meeting With Director Of Public Safety Wendell Hissrich &amp; Chief Of Police Scott SchubertTime: 2:00 P.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County BuildingMeeting With Allegheny County Executive Rich FitzgeraldTime: 3:30 P.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County Building | 6/3/2019 07:45:58 |
| Pittsburgh Rated Best in Nation for Friendliness to Small Business | PITTSBURGH, PA (March 6, 2019) Procurement systems offered by the City of Pittsburgh have been rated the best in the country for small businesses and startup firms. The ratings by Citimart – an organization that helps cities innovate, save money and provide better quality of life for residents and businesses when buying goods and services – gave Pittsburgh its highest score nationwide in Small Business Accessibility, or how well cities provide businesses discovery and decision-making experiences. “Cities look to innovative solutions to face urgent issues like social cohesion and climate change. Mayors around the country have pledged to innovate and buy more from small business, but are they walking the walk?,” Citymart explained. “To answer this, Citymart has gathered data on 56 cities to provide the first comparative view on how accessible and open cities are to small business and their ideas. In all, we evaluated 70 government agencies in cities &gt;500k population plus a few major counties and additional selected cities.” The full breakdown of ratings is available here. The five top rated cities in the report are Pittsburgh, San Antonio, San Diego, Harris County (Houston), and Charlotte. Pittsburgh’s procurement is overseen by the Office of Management and Budget and acting Director Jennifer Olzinger. Over the past five years under the Peduto administration OMB has implemented innovative and transparent procurement best practices, including OMB's purchasing website Beacon. “I want to thank OMB for all the work it has done to provide better services to businesses and residents alike,” Mayor William Peduto said. “The investments we have made in upgrading procurement technology, along with the creation of numerous policies and procedures to instill best practices in all aspects of City procurement, have clearly paid off.” | 6/3/2019 11:23:08 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Thursday, March 7, 2019 | Meeting With Allegheny County Executive Rich FitzgeraldTime: 10:00 A.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County BuildingFilming Video For Homewood CampaignTime: 1:00 P.M.Location: Council Chamber, City-County BuildingMeeting With Welcoming Pittsburgh Steering CommitteeTime: 2:00 P.M.Location: Mayor's Conference Room, City-County BuildingWeekly Scheduling MeetingTime: 4:00 P.M.Location: Mayor's Conference Room, City-County Building | 7/3/2019 08:07:21 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Friday, March 8, 2019 | Presenting Awards For School District Of Pittsburgh Breakfast Poster CompetitionTime: 10:00 A.M.Location: Colfax Elementary School, Squirrel Hill SouthCitiParks Morningside Healthy Active Living Center Grand Opening Ribbon CuttingTime: 11:15 A.M.Location: Former Morningside School, MorningsideMeeting With Deborah Acklin &amp; John ValentineTime: 1:00 P.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County BuildingMeeting With Students From Acculturation For Justice, Access, &amp; Peace OutreachTime: 2:30 P.M.Location: Mayor's Conference Room, City-County BuildingMeeting With School District Of Pittsburgh's Board President Lynda Wrenn &amp; Superintendent Of Schools Dr. Anthony HamletTime: 3:30 P.M.Location: Pittsburgh Board Of Public Education, North Oakland | 8/3/2019 08:01:54 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Saturday and Sunday, March 9-10, 2019 | No public events scheduled | 10/3/2019 10:05:57 |
| Fourth Inclusive Innovation Summit Announced | PITTSBURGH, PA (March 11, 2019) The City of Pittsburgh and Urban Redevelopment Authority of Pittsburgh (URA) today announced that the fourth annual Inclusive Innovation Summit will take place March 28 – March 30, 2019. Summit programming is designed to increase awareness and knowledge of best practices in inclusion, as well as encourage cross-sector collaboration. The Summit will shine a spotlight on important work that is done throughout the year to encourage innovation that uplifts everyone in the city. Previously known as Inclusive Innovation Week, the 2019 Summit will be structured differently than in years past. More than 40 events will take place over the course of three days, with all of the daytime programs occurring at a central Downtown location.  All of the programming will be free of charge and complimentary childcare, bus passes and refreshments will be provided.“The Summit is an exciting opportunity for Pittsburghers to come together and gain valuable insights on inclusion and equity,” said Mayor William Peduto. “Having the Summit centered in one place this year means attendees can take part in more events and make more meaningful connections. We hope everyone has a chance to collaborate, learn from one another and celebrate the important work that is being done across sectors to promote inclusion."“This year’s Summit is about strengthening partnerships to make Pittsburgh a stronger, more cohesive city,” added Robert Rubinstein, executive director of the URA. “The Summit will serve as a platform to elevate and amplify voices over the course of three action-packed days. We’re grateful to our many partners around the city who have made this event possible.”The programming will be a combination of hands-on workshops, panels, presentations and discussions from a variety of organizations and businesses. It will be a great opportunity to meet leaders in the city and gain the tools and knowledge necessary to cultivate inclusion. A few events to look forward to include: 3/28                 Kick-off at the Kelly Strayhorn Theater featuring a keynote by Del Johnson from Backstage Capital3/29                 CreativeMornings Pittsburgh breakfast kick-off; Keynote address by Andre Perry; Silent Disco at the Children’s Museum3/29-30           All-day programming at Point Park University and the new URA Building at 412 Boulevard of the Allies; Maker spaces, lightening talks, programming led by artists, lawyers, entrepreneurs, activists, journalists and many othersThis Summit would not be possible without these sponsors: URA, City of Pittsburgh, Highmark, Children’s Museum of Pittsburgh, Choolaah, Google, AARP, Point Park University, Innovation Works, Idea Foundry, Remake Learning, Comcast, Internet Essentials, Next Act Fund, BoardBookit, Lyft, ACCESS, Healthy Ride, Uber, Port Authority, Parking Authority, Pittsburgh Technology Council, and the Pittsburgh Downtown Partnership.For more information or to get involved visit our website. Pre-register for the Summit using this link. Participants and presenters are encouraged to download the App to assist with transportation planning, and scheduling for the weekend so you don’t miss out on events you want to be a part of. Follow @weinnovatepgh on Instagram and @pghip on Twitter to learn more about our partners and presenters and get a sneak peek at what to expect during the Summit.Contacts:Timothy McNulty, Communications Director, Office of Mayor William Peduto, 412-660-1999, timothy.mcnulty@pittsburghpa.govGigi Saladna, Chief Communications Officer, Urban Redevelopment Authority of Pittsburgh, 412-255-6434, gsaladna@ura.org | 11/3/2019 09:46:05 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Monday, March 11, 2019 | On vacation | 11/3/2019 09:37:25 |
| New Affordable Housing Planned for East Liberty | PITTSBURGH, PA (March 12, 2019) The Urban Redevelopment Authority of Pittsburgh is announcing an upcoming Request for Proposals to build mixed-income housing on publicly-owned parking lots on South Beatty and Mignonotte streets in East Liberty. The URA board plans to announce the RFP at its meeting Thursday. The authority is seeking to acquire two surface parking lots currently owned by the City and the Public Parking Authority and convey them to a developer through the URA’s disposition process.  The goal is to select a developer or development team who can complete a high-quality mixed-use, mixed-income development with an emphasis on affordability and the inclusion of a parking structure that will fully replace the existing public parking spaces.  The URA has been working closely with Councilman Rev. Ricky Burgess and the newly formed Village Collaborative, a faith-based advocacy group focused on equitable and sustainable community development. The authority intends to release this RFP in early April. All parties interested in responding to this RFP or receiving notifications when the URA releases an opportunity must register with Public Purchase, a web-based e-Procurement service for the automatic notification and transmittal of RFPs. Instructions for the two-step registration process can be found online at: https://www.ura.org/pages/proposals-bids. | 12/3/2019 12:49:50 |
| City Releases Farmers Market Study with Key Recommendations | PITTSBURGH PA (March 12, 2019) In partnership with the Farmers Market Coalition (FMC), the City of Pittsburgh has completed a study which recommends actions to improve area farmers markets. These actions will increase equitable access to fresh, affordable, and culturally appropriate food, promote healthy eating choices, and support our regional food producers.These recommendations include: establishing the City of Pittsburgh as an active facilitator of farmers market development; implementing effective city-wide programs and promotions; and managing best-in-class markets. The city plans to incorporate these recommendations into an action plan that complements the efforts already being undertaken to strengthen farmers markets in Pittsburgh. Specifically, the City will create a market operator’s guide and convene a Farmers Market Network.The study, which included surveys, interviews, and community meetings, finds that Pittsburgh is incredibly well positioned to maximize the impact of its farmers markets due to a variety of factors including: the abundance of farms in the greater Pittsburgh region; a sense of regional pride; a robust network of community partners, health systems and universities; a network of existing farmers markets throughout the city; a dedicated base of customers; and a City government engaged in resiliency planning and market operations.“Pittsburgh has been a leader in urban food policy, from a model urban agricultural zoning code to the focus on food and agriculture in the Climate Action Plan,” Mayor William Peduto said.The study also identifies further steps necessary to make the programs work. As Jen Cheek from the Farmers Market Coalition notes, “success requires careful planning, robust promotion, strong partnerships, responsive programming, and constant monitoring.”The study’s recommendations are divided into three broad goals. The first is providing clear support and services for markets, which can be accomplished by establishing the City of Pittsburgh as an active facilitator of farmers market development. The second is activating and supporting collaboration among all Pittsburgh markets, which can be achieved by implementing effective city-wide programs and promotions in partnership with the City, independent farmers markets, and other community partners. The final recommendation is increasing the capacity of (City-run) farmers market management and facilitating improved operations, promotions, and evaluation. This goal can be accomplished by having the city manage best-in-class markets that effectively serve a wide range of Pittsburgh’s residents.Through the Division of Sustainability and Resilience, the City will create a market operator’s guide as a resource for new and existing farmers market managers and start to convene a Farmers Market Network made up of market managers, customers, and supporters to help promote all Pittsburgh area farmers markets and create ways to attract more shoppers to the markets.Some of the improvements recommended in the Study have been in place since the Department of Special Events took over management of the markets in 2018.  They have hired a year-round market manager, created a digital inventory of vendors, and improved communications between farmers/vendors and the City.Brian Katze, manager of the City’s Office of Special Events, said "Having this road map as well as increased resources and staff will help us take the city-run markets to new levels."Shelly Danko+Day, the City’s project manager for the study, said “the key to success lies in cooperation and understanding that builds on this report’s work.” Danko+Day, who works with the Sustainability and Resilience division at the Department of City Planning, added that this is already underway. Leading up to the opening of markets this spring, farmers and vendors will convene on March 13, and a community partner meeting will be scheduled closer to the opening of market season.Farmers and vendors interested in participating in markets around the city can find info on all 25 markets here: https://farmspread.com/pittsburgh-area/  Info on City run markets can be found through the City’s website: http://pittsburghpa.gov/events/farmers-market | 12/3/2019 13:42:17 |
| Learn &amp; Earn Summer Youth Employment Program Accepting Applications | PITTSBURGH, PA (March 12, 2019) The City of Pittsburgh, Allegheny County, and Partner4Work today announced that the Learn &amp; Earn Summer Youth Employment Program is now accepting applications for this year’s program. Now it its fifth year, Learn &amp; Earn annually connects young adults in Allegheny County and Pittsburgh with summer jobs and work-readiness training. Learn &amp; Earn annually connects nearly 2,000 underserved Allegheny County and Pittsburgh residents ages 14 through 21 with 6-week summer jobs in high-demand sectors including health care, education and STEM. There is no “one-size-fits-all” approach to the summer employment program. Learn &amp; Earn opportunities can range from career exploration activities, service-learning or work-study to entrepreneurship and corporate internships.  “We’re excited to see the growth and vitality going on in our community, but in order to see that continue, we need to ensure that we are connecting our residents with the skills that the workforce needs,” said County Executive Rich Fitzgerald. “The Learn &amp; Earn program helps us do that by providing our youth will real-world experience while also ensuring that they learn skills like communication and teamwork which are in demand in today’s workplace.” Last year, 26 community-based Learn &amp; Earn providers connected young people with jobs at more than 380 sites where they explored career options, gained work experience and developed soft skills required for career success, all while earning a paycheck. Collectively, participants earned more than $1.5 million in wages and received nearly 20,000 hours in work-readiness training. “I’m proud that Learn &amp; Earn offered every eligible applicant a summer job in 2018, and for many who took advantage of this opportunity, it was their first work experience,” said Mayor William Peduto. “Learn &amp; Earn provides more than just a summer job. It’s an opportunity to gain the skills and experience necessary to become college and career ready, opening doors to a range of possibilities.” Last year, Learn &amp; Earn participants edited videos, performed archival research for a photography exhibit, promoted a community arts festival, learned coding and computer programming for the creation of socially conscious gaming, conducted social science research, and more. “Partner4Work is pleased to partner again with the county and city to provide young adults with quality work experiences through Learn &amp; Earn, the leading youth summer jobs program in our area,” said Partner4Work CEO Earl Buford. “This model program is a community-wide effort, bringing together local government, businesses, foundations, and non-profits to empower young adults and prepare our region’s future workforce for in-demand careers.” The business community’s participation in Learn &amp; Earn has ensured its success each year. For example, leading employers support and participate in the Corporate Internship Program, a highly-selective component of Learn &amp; Earn which provides up to 50 young adults an opportunity to expand their career-readiness skills. Learn &amp; Earn expanded the age range this year for the Corporate Internship Program (18-24 years old), extended the work period (8 weeks), and increased the pay scale (up to $10.35/hour). Young adults selected for the paid professional internships will be matched with major corporations and non-profit partners throughout the Pittsburgh area. In past years, interns have worked in industries such as engineering, finance and banking, and health care. Learn &amp; Earn is now accepting applications for summer 2019 job opportunities. The application period ends May 31. Interested youth can find eligibility requirements and the application online at www.jobs4summer.org, or at one of the 21 in-person application support centers throughout Allegheny County and the City of Pittsburgh: https://www.partner4work.org/applicationhelp/.   Employers interested in participating in the Corporate Internship Program, hosting an intern or sponsoring internships with local non-profits, should contact summer@partner4work.org. Learn &amp; Earn staff screens candidates, arranges interviews, provides outgoing training and support, and processes paperwork and payroll.  About Partner4WorkNationally recognized for innovation, Partner4Work, formerly Three Rivers Workforce Investment Board, is the workforce development organization that connects funding, expertise and opportunities for employers, job seekers, agencies, and policy makers to develop a thriving workforce in the Pittsburgh area. As stewards of more than $21 million in public and private workforce funds, Partner4Work oversees and funds workforce programs for adults, dislocated workers and youth; educates the community through labor market analytics; and implements innovative solutions to the region’s systemic workforce challenges. More information is available at www.partner4work.org. | 12/3/2019 10:05:17 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Tuesday, March 12, 2019 | On vacation | 12/3/2019 08:41:30 |
| Park Construction Moving Forward at Liberty Green in East Liberty | PITTSBURGH, PA (March 13, 2019) Construction contracts for a new park are set to be approved tomorrow for Liberty Green, adjacent to the $30 million Choice Neighborhoods mixed income housing development. The 3.25-acre park at the corner of Larimer Avenue and Station Street on the East Liberty/Larimer border will include a plaza area to support neighborhood programming, open lawn and play mounds, a large playground area, public art and significant green infrastructure.  Green infrastructure within the project is expected to capture up to four million gallons of storm water annually. As stated in the Larimer Vision Plan, Larimer Consensus Group’s goal is to become the greenest neighborhood in the city, and the plans were subject to an extensive community planning process the URA conducted with neighborhood partners. The board of the Urban Redevelopment Authority of Pittsburgh is set to vote on construction contracts for the park at its meeting Thursday afternoon. The contracts include: - $4.93 million for site preparation to Tedesco Excatating and Paving - $365,000 for construction management and inspection services to Mackin Engineering Company - $100,000 additional for services during construction to Wallace, Roberts and Todd LLC Funding sources for these contracts include: Larimer Neighborhood Funds, East Liberty Neighborhood Funds, Larimer Choice Neighborhood Funds, Federal Choice Neighborhood Funds, 2018 CDBG Funds, DCNR C2P2 Grant, RACP Grant, PADEP Growing Greener Grant, ALCOSAN Grow Grant, PWSA Grant, local foundation grants, and/or other sources. | 13/3/2019 13:25:16 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Wednesday, March 13, 2019 | On vacation | 13/3/2019 09:30:59 |
| City Recruiting and Training Lifeguards | PITTSBURGH, PA (March 14, 2019) Citiparks Aquatics is looking for City of Pittsburgh residents who are interested in being employed as a lifeguard this summer. Applicants must be at least 16 years of age.The City offers lifeguard certifications, and lifeguard training classes begin March 16 at the Oliver Bath House in the South Side and will continue every Saturday through April 27. Classes will also be available Tuesdays and Thursdays from May 2 through June 4.For more information or to register for classes, contact the Aquatics Office at: (412) 323-7928 or aquatics@pittsburghpa.gov | 14/3/2019 09:49:17 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Thursday, March 14, 2019 | On vacation | 14/3/2019 09:08:41 |
| Mayor Peduto Meets with the Dalai Lama | PITTSBURGH, PA (March 14, 2019) Mayor William Peduto met yesterday with His Holiness the Dalai Lama in Dharamshala, India.The Mayor joined Manchester Craftsmen's Guild founder Bill Strickland, Chicago businessman Steve Sarowitz and UPMC senior vice president Scott Lammie for the 10 a.m. meeting, after receiving an invitation from Dr. Barry Kerzin, the Dalai Lama's personal physician.Dr Kerzin has been working in Pittsburgh with UPMC to train nurses in wellness and mindfulness for both themselves and patients. Mayor Peduto and the City of Pittsburgh are looking at offering the training to city youth and seniors with Dr Kerzin's assistance.The Manchester Craftsmen's Guild operates in 12 cities around the world and Strickland is seeking additional global partners to expand his Pittsburgh model of opportunity to at-risk youth everywhere.  The Mayor is paying all his expenses personally during this private vacation. | 14/3/2019 09:26:15 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Friday, March 15, 2019 | On vacation | 15/3/2019 11:35:03 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Saturday and Sunday, March 16-17, 2019 | On vacation | 18/3/2019 09:46:54 |
| Pittsburgh Launching Financial Empowerment Center Initiative | PITTSBURGH, PA (March 18, 2019) The City of Pittsburgh in partnership with Neighborhood Allies is announcing the creation of Pittsburgh’s Financial Empowerment Center (FEC).  Pittsburgh’s FEC will provide free one-on-one financial counseling by appointment or walk in at locations around the city.  FECs help clients take control of their debt, deal with debt collectors, improve their credit, create a budget, save, connect to safe and affordable financial products, and much more.The Cities for Financial Empowerment (CFE) Fund, a national nonprofit in New York City, is working to replicate the FEC model through its FEC Public platform. Through a competitive application process, the CFE Fund selected the City of Pittsburgh to plan for, and ultimately launch, a Financial Empowerment Center as a new public service. Advantage Credit Counseling has hired and trained a manager and four counselors, who have been deployed to eight locations.This service in Pittsburgh is initially funded for two years at a cost of $666,000. The CFE Fund is generously providing almost half of this cost with the remainder coming from local philanthropies, financial institutions, and a $30,000 contribution from the City of Pittsburgh.Legislation on the City’s contribution is being introduced to Pittsburgh City Council on Tuesday, March 19.Free one on one financial counseling sessions will be available at eight partner locations so participants can find a place and time that works for them by calling Advantage Credit Counseling at (800) 298-0237.For more information – including a list of locations – please see this handout.The FEC ModelTo date, the Cities for Financial Empowerment Fund’s Financial Empowerment Centers have worked with more than 85,000 clients, helping them reduce their debt by more than $101 million and increase their savings by $10 million. Launched in 2008, FECs are operating now in 8 cities, with over a dozen local governments working to launch a local FEC initiative. Professionally trained FEC counselors help consumers with low incomes manage their finances, pay down debt, increase savings, establish and build credit, and access safe and affordable mainstream banking products. At the core of the FEC model is the integration of counseling into other social services, including housing and foreclosure prevention, workforce development, prisoner reentry, benefits access, domestic violence services, and more.Neighborhood AlliesNeighborhood Allies is a unique community development partner that is part funder, part lender, part connector and part consultant.  Believing that Pittsburgh’s future is built upon strong neighborhoods, they are a forward-thinking, solutions-oriented community developer that brings hope, fresh ideas, expertise, and resources to distressed and transitional neighborhoods. They accomplish this work by listening to the needs of neighborhoods and serving as a catalyst for change. Their approach to neighborhood revitalization is comprehensive and multifaceted, and they make and support neighborhood-based investments that seed ideas, help transform vulnerable neighborhoods and identify scalable ways to create positive social impact, using their Healthy Neighborhoods Framework as their roadmap.  For more information visit: www.neighborhoodallies.orgAdvantage Credit CounselingAdvantage Credit Counseling Service, Inc. (ACCS) is a non-profit 501(c)3 organization that has been successfully assisting consumers attain financial wellness for over 50 years.  Advantage helps individuals and families achieve financial wellness through its financial counseling services and financial literacy education.  The agency helps consumers at various points in their financial life, whether they are struggling with debt, building their credit, preparing for homeownership or trying to save their home from foreclosure.  The counseling services the agency provides gives consumers a resource that helps them to achieve their financial goals. | 18/3/2019 10:28:23 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Monday, March 18, 2019 | On vacation | 18/3/2019 09:47:46 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Tuesday, March 19, 2019 | On vacation | 19/3/2019 09:06:54 |
| City Finalizing Lease for Start-Up Incubator in Beechview | PITTSBURGH, PA (March 19, 2019) Lease terms are nearly final for a new start-up incubator in a city-owned building at 1555 Broadway Avenue in Beechview, which will complete the full occupancy of the building and bring more private investment to the neighborhood. The final lease with the Pittsburgh Hispanic Development Corp., which is managing the incubator, was introduced by Mayor William Peduto’s administration to Pittsburgh City Council this morning. The new tenant follows the Beechview Senior Center and the Muddy Cup coffee house as tenants in the building, and builds on the positive momentum happening in the neighborhood. “I commend the PHDC for their commitment in helping revitalize the business district in Beechview. The addition of the incubator will enhance the existing Senior Center, provide opportunities for businesses to grow and continue allowing more and more people the chance to experience this community on the rise,” said Senator Wayne Fontana. "I am excited for the next stage of development in Beechview where we will welcome a wonderful community partner in PHDC,” said City Councilman Anthony Coghill. “With the cooperation of our law department, the Mayor's office, Senator Fontana, PHDC, and my office, we are now able to bring new jobs and opportunities into our neighborhood. I look forward to the business district thriving and growing as we bring more businesses and non-profits to Broadway Avenue." The 29-year lease sets out maintenance and operating responsibilities for the PHDC at the leased space, and shared responsibilities for the rest of the building. | 19/3/2019 11:19:47 |
| Lane Closure on Washington Boulevard | PITTSBURGH, PA (March 19, 2019) The City of Pittsburgh Department of Mobility and Infrastructure is announcing that the outbound lane of Washington Boulevard will again be closed on March 23, 2019, from 6:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m., to allow the Department of Public Works to continue maintenance involving cutting back bushes, branches and collecting litter along the edge of Highland Park.  This closure will affect the lane from under the Highland Park Bridge to the edge of the woodland, before the right hand lane directing motorists to Washington Boulevard.  The work is weather dependent and no posted detours will be provided.   If you have any questions, please contact Tom Paulin, Public Works Superintendent, at 412-995-0594. | 19/3/2019 12:59:57 |
| Department of Mobility and Infrastructure East Carson Streetscaping Project | PITTSBURGH, PA (March 19, 2019) The City of Pittsburgh Department of Mobility and Infrastructure is pleased to announce the commencement of construction of the East Carson Streetscaping Project. The $3,000,000 project will provide aesthetic consistency along the East Carson corridor between 10th Street and 25th Street with the streetscaping elements that were constructed as part of the South Side Works development.  Pedestrian level lighting will be installed to enhance safety and the overall experience of walking or biking along Carson Street.  Greening will be incorporated with hanging baskets and street trees.  Pavement restoration will be exposed aggregate concrete. A. Merante Contracting, Inc. is the lowest responsible bidder that has been awarded the work.   Hours of operation will be Monday thru Friday 7:00 AM to 5:00 PM.  Construction will occur 2 to 3 blocks at a time. NO PARKING signs will be posted 24 hours in advance in areas we will be working in. If vehicles are parked in the work zone that has been posted for that day, the vehicle will be towed. Expect traffic delays.  We understand that this may be a short-term inconvenience and we hope to work together with you in a professional and amicable manner for the long-term improvement of your neighborhood. DOMI’s project will complement a PennDOT safety improvement project along East Carson Street from Smithfield Street to 33rd Street that involves intersection upgrades including signals, ADA ramps, and pedestrian bump outs, as well as roadway resurfacing.  The PennDOT project is estimated at $15,000,000. If you have any questions regarding this notice or the road construction project, feel free to contact the Project Manager at DOMI.EastCarson@pittsburghpa.gov.  Thank you for your patience and cooperation during this project. | 19/3/2019 09:01:22 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Wednesday, March 20, 2019 | On vacation | 20/3/2019 10:27:59 |
| Traffic Signal Changes on Grant Street to Increase Pedestrian Safety | PITTSBURGH, PA (March 20, 2019) The Department of Mobility and Infrastructure (DOMI) is performing traffic signal timing changes on Grant Street. The changes will increase pedestrian safety and the walkability of Pittsburgh’s Downtown Business District, and optimize travel for all users.The traffic signal timing changes on Grant Street are part of a larger traffic analysis, optimization, and planning project to improve safety throughout Downtown; improve mobility and progression along certain corridors deemed priority routes for vehicles; and evaluate potential alternative street operations.The most notable change to street users will be the sequence of green turn arrow phase for motorists, and WALK phase for pedestrians during the traffic signal cycle. As always, users should wait for appropriate signal indications before proceeding through an intersection.DOMI will be monitoring Grant Street and making adjustments to traffic signal timings over the next 30 days. All changes to traffic signals on major corridors should be complete within 90 days. Those with questions may contact Municipal Traffic Engineer Amanda Purcell at 412-255-8846. | 20/3/2019 15:19:14 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Thursday, March 21, 2019 | On vacation | 21/3/2019 09:17:25 |
| Swinburne Street Closure | PITTSBURGH, PA (March 22, 2019) The City of Pittsburgh’s Department of Mobility and Infrastructure advises that Swinburne Street between South Oakland and Greenfield Avenue is currently closed to perform soil clearance activities. The road is tentatively scheduled to reopen Sunday, March 24 after 6 p.m. Residents are asked to have patience while the work is completed.For questions, please contact the Department of Mobility and Infrastructure at domi@pittsburghpa.gov or 412-255-8859. | 22/3/2019 10:25:33 |
| Mayor William Peduto Issued the Following Statement Today on the Verdict in Rosfeld Case | PITTSBURGH, PA (March 22, 2019) Mayor William Peduto issued the following statement today on the verdict in the Rosfeld case: "Tonight I grieve with Antwon's family, friends, and the entire community. Words cannot heal the pain so many are feeling. Only action can begin the process, a process that will take work and understanding. An understanding that inequality exists and we have a moral obligation to address it. I offer the full support of the City of Pittsburgh, to help us find the light in darkness." | 22/3/2019 23:11:18 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Monday, March 25, 2019 | No public events scheduled. | 25/3/2019 08:33:44 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Tuesday, March 26, 2019 | Carnegie Mellon University Energy Week Welcoming CeremonyTime: 12:00 P.M.Location: Cohen University Center - Carnegie Mellon University, Squirrel Hill North Meeting With Aly Shaw &amp; Pittsburgh United's Environmental Justice CampaignTime: 2:00 P.M.Location: Mayor's Conference Room, City-County Building | 26/3/2019 07:55:25 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Wednesday, March 27, 2019 | Meeting with County Executive Rich Fitzgerald and FoundationsTime: 8:30 A.M.Locations: Centre City Tower, Central Business DistrictMeeting with Consul General of SwedenTime: 11:00 A.M.Location: Mayor's Conference Room, City-County BuildingMeeting with Philip Cynar from the Allegheny ConferenceTime:11:30 A.M.Location: Mayor's Conference Room, City-County BuildingPresenting Mayor Sophie Masloff Employee of The Month AwardTime: 1:30 P.M.Location: Mayor's Conference Room, City-County BuildingWeekly Meeting with Chief Schubert and Director HissirchTime: 2:00 P.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City County BuildingSpeaking At Pittsburgh's Civic Leadership Academy Opening SessionTime: 6:00 P.M.Location: Mayor's Conference Room, City-County Building | 27/3/2019 08:04:02 |
| Christmas Tree Recycling Program Produces 21 Tons of Free Mulch | PITTSBURGH, PA (March 27, 2019) Pittsburgh residents are welcome to pick up free mulch from the City's Christmas Tree Recycling Program, starting this Saturday.This past holiday season, the City of Pittsburgh diverted more than 21 tons of Christmas trees from the landfill, over the course of one month. With the help of the Department of Public Works Environmental Services bureau, its Forestry Division, and local Girl Scout troops, Pittsburgh residents took Christmas trees to 10 locations throughout the City for recycling. The trees were then chipped into mulch.Pine mulch is great for vegetable gardens, blueberries, strawberry patches, tomatoes, and eradicating weeds.Residents interested in picking up mulch for their spring gardens may attend four Saturday morning collection events at Forestry Division headquarters in Highland Park. Users must bring their own buckets, gloves and shovels. Dates: March 30, April 6, April 13, and April 20th ( While supplies last) Hours: 8:00 a.m. - 1:00 p.m. Location: City of Pittsburgh Forestry Division, 6520 Stanton Ave. | 27/3/2019 09:37:50 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Thursday, March 28, 2019 | Speaking At VisitPittsburgh's 2019 Annual ConferenceTime: 10:30 A.M.Location: Rivers Casino, ChateauDepartment of Human Resources &amp; Civil Service Women In Leadership LuncheonTime: 11:30 A.M.Location: Schenley Skating Rink Banquet Room, Schenley ParkMeeting With Rob TartagliaTime: 2:00 P.M.Location: Mayor's Conference Room, City-County BuildingWeekly Scheduling MeetingTime: 4:00 P.M.Location: Mayor's Conference Room, City-County BuildingDepartment Of Innovation &amp; Performance's Inclusive Innovation SummitTime: 6:00 P.M.Location: Kelly-Strayhorn Theater, East Liberty | 28/3/2019 08:21:16 |
| Swinburne Street Closure | PITTSBURGH, PA (March 28, 2019) The City of Pittsburgh, Department of Public Works, advises that Swinburne Street, from Parkview to Greenfield Avenue, will be closed on Saturday, March 30, 2019, from 8:00 am to 11:00 am for paper picking and gutter work for water runoff.  Six (6) to eight (8) jersey barriers will be placed at the top of the slide of Swinburne on Childs Street. | 28/3/2019 09:33:58 |
| Grants Awarded for Multimodal Projects in Oakland and South Side | PITTSBURGH, PA (March 28, 2019) The City of Pittsburgh was awarded grants for two major projects in Oakland and the South Side this week from the state Multimodal Transportation Fund. The City received $500,000 for the reconstruction of Bigelow Boulevard between Fifth and Forbes avenues in the heart of the University of Pittsburgh campus. Planned improvements include new sidewalks; bike lanes; a new and safer pedestrian crossing in the middle of the block; a new shuttle stop; and improvements to parking and ramps for the disabled.  Another $500,000 grant will support reconstruction of 21st Street between Josephine and Carson streets in the South Side Flats. The project will include green infrastructure and stormwater controls; new curbs, street surfaces and sidewalks; and new lighting and signage. “I want to thank Governor Wolf for these grants, which will make these two important roadways safer and more efficient for all users, whether they are pedestrians, motorists, bicyclists or transit customers,” Mayor William Peduto said. | 28/3/2019 15:12:15 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Friday, March 29, 2019 | Welcoming College Delegation From Ireland &amp; ScotlandTime: 11:00 A.M.Location: Mayor's Conference Room, City-County BuildingSpeaking At Builders Guild Of Western Pennsylvania Kid's DayTime: 12:30 P.M.Location: David L. Lawrence Convention Center, Central Business DistrictAllegheny Conference Branding Initiative InterviewTime: 1:30 P.M.Location: Mayor's Conference Room, City-County BuildingInterview With Dr. Bryce Meredig For "DataLab: The Materials Information" PodcastTime: 2:00 P.M.Location: Mayor's Conference Room, City-County BuildingMeeting With Jonathan MayoTime: 2:30 P.M.Location: Mayor's Conference Room, City-County BuildingSpeaking At Amen Corner FundraiserTime: 6:30 P.M.Location Wiggle Whiskey, Strip District | 29/3/2019 08:42:40 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Monday, April 1, 2019 | Meeting with Ralph FalboTime: 11:00 A.M.Location: Mayor’s Office, City-County BuildingMeeting with Chief of Staff Dan Gilman and Assistant Chief of Staff Grant GittlenTime: 2:00 P.M.Location: Mayor’s Conference Room, City-County BuildingSpeaking at Manufacturing &amp; Technology Conference and ExpoTime: 4:00 P.M.Location: David L. Lawrence Convention Center, Central Business District | 1/4/2019 09:10:56 |
| City of Pittsburgh and Local Partner Agencies Use Community-Inclusive Process to Redesign the Intersection of Frankstown and Lincoln Avenues as Part of National Safe Streets, Smart Cities Academy | PITTSBURGH, PA (April 1, 2019) The Department of Mobility and Infrastructure (DOMI) and Office of Mayor William Peduto, in partnership with Allegheny County Health Department, Pittsburgh Public Schools, Port Authority of Allegheny County, Southwestern Pennsylvania Commission and United Way will host a series of community sessions to gather input on how to redesign the intersection of Frankstown Avenue, Lincoln Avenue, Lowell Street and Enterprise Street to promote safety for all users.  Beginning in September 2018, the City of Pittsburgh and local authorities joined the cities of Durham, NC and Huntsville, AL as part of the Safe Streets, Smart Cities Academy through the National Complete Streets Coalition, a program of Smart Growth America. A team of ten staff from local agencies in these cities have been working together to hone their skills in using safety countermeasures, creative placemaking, community engagement, and emerging technology to create safer streets. Each city, including Pittsburgh, will launch a temporary, on-the-ground demonstration project to transform one dangerous street or intersection into a safer place for people.  The Pittsburgh team has chosen the intersection of Frankstown Avenue, Lincoln Avenue, Lowell Street and Enterprise Street in the Larimer neighborhood. This multi-street intersection has been the site of multiple crashes over the years. A number of vulnerable users must cross this intersection on a daily basis including local school children, transit riders, and people traveling on bicycle. In addition it has a high volume of motorists and many points of conflict between modes. “Safety is our highest priority. But we also want to build a great city with streets that reflect and value the pride and people of our great neighborhoods. We are looking forward to working with local neighbors in this effort as they are the real experts of this intersection,” said DOMI Director Karina Ricks.  Community input about safety conditions of the intersection and design ideas are being gathered using classroom activities with students and a parent/guardian survey at Lincoln Prek-5, which is located at the intersection. DOMI will be hosting an open community deliberative forum on April 2, 2019 from 6:00 – 8:00 PM at the Urban Academy (437 Turrett Street). Registration is encouraged by calling 311 or visiting https://goo.gl/dvX5Zt . Free childcare is available upon registration.  All information gathered from the community will be considered by the team that includes mobility and transportation planning experts to develop a safe and creative design for the intersection. A temporary street design will be installed during an event at the end of April with opportunities for feedback from people who use the intersection before the permanent design is put into place.  “Every death on our roadways is one death too many,” said Emiko Atherton, Director of the National Complete Streets Coalition. “This program helps cities around the country explore new ways to make their streets safer for people of all ages and abilities and work toward the goal of eliminating deaths on our roads.” This technical assistance is funded through a Safe System Innovation Grant from Road to Zero, a coalition of more than 800 organizations committed to reducing traffic fatalities in the United States to zero over the next three decades. The coalition holds quarterly meetings to discuss innovative research and strategies and offers tools, resources, and grants to support safer streets nationwide ### Smart Growth America is the only national organization dedicated to researching, advocating for and leading coalitions to bring smart growth practices to more communities nationwide. From providing more sidewalks to ensuring more homes are built near public transportation or that productive farms remain a part of our communities, smart growth helps make sure people across the nation can live in great neighborhoods. For more information visit www.smartgrowthamerica.org.  The National Complete Streets Coalition, a program of Smart Growth America, is a non-profit, non-partisan alliance of public interest organizations and transportation professionals committed to the development and implementation of Complete Streets policies and practices. A nationwide movement launched by the Coalition in 2004, Complete Streets is the integration of people and place in the planning, design, construction, operation, and maintenance of transportation networks. To date, agencies nationwide have adopted over 1,400 Complete Streets policies. | 1/4/2019 13:58:09 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Tuesday, April 2, 2019 | Tour Of Children's Museum's New "Museum Lab" At Historic Allegheny Center Carnegie LibraryTime: 11:30 A.M.Location: Children's Museum Of Pittsburgh, Allegheny CenterMeeting With Citizens Financial Group's Bruce Van Saun &amp; Dan FitzpatrickTime: 1:30 P.M.Location: Mayor's Conference Room, City-County BuildingMeeting With Wishful Wednesday Production's Karyn Zunich &amp; Audubon Society of Western PA's Rebecca Tyers BrownTime: 3:00 P.M.Location: Mayor's Conference Room, City-County BuildingMeeting With Christopher D'AddarioTime: 4:00 P.M.Location: Mayor's Conference Room, City-County BuildingInterview With Paul MuschickTime: 5:00 P.M.Location: Mayor's Conference Room, City-County BuildingSpeaking At Pittsburgh's National Arts Program ArtsWork Annual Employee Art ShowTime: 5:30 P.M.Location: Grand Lobby, City-County BuildingPittsburgh Bureau Of Police Graduation CeremonyTime: 7:00 P.M.Location: CCAC North Side Forester Center, Allegheny West | 2/4/2019 08:42:15 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Wednesday, April 3, 2019 | Meeting with Chief of Staff Dan Gilman, Chief Schubert, and Director HissrichTime: 10:30 A.M.Location: Mayor’s Conference Room, City-County BuildingMeeting with Gloria LeDonneTime: 11:30 A.M.Location: Mayor’s Conference Room, City-County BuildingAttending “Pittsburgh Principles” Virtual Session Case StudyTime: 1:00 P.M.Location: Mayor’s Office, City-County BuildingWeekly Meeting with Chief Schubert and Director HissrichTime: 2:00 P.M.Location: Mayor’s Office, City-County BuildingAttending Allegheny Conference Regional Investors Council MeetingTime: 3:00 P.M.Location: Fairmont Hotel, Central Business DistrictInterview with WPTS Radio ShowTime: 5:30 P.M.Location: William Pitt Union, North Oakland | 3/4/2019 09:15:44 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Thursday, April 4, 2019 | Pittsburgh Bureau Of Police Fallen Officers Memorial ServiceTime: 7:00 A.M.Location: Pittsburgh Bureau of Police Zone 5 Station, Highland ParkMeeting With Dr. Heidi OndekTime: 11:00 A.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County BuildingMeeting With Councilman Reverend Ricky BurgessTime: 12:30 P.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County BuildingPresenting Proclamation To Eli SmithTime: 3:15 P.M.Location: Southwestern Regional Veterans Center, Lincoln - Lemington - BelmarItalian Delegation Of Rail Supply Chain ConferenceTime: 4:00 P.M.Location: United Steelworkers Tower, Central Business District | 4/4/2019 07:49:57 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Friday, April 5, 2019 | Cross Award Ceremony For Staff Sergeant Stevon A. BookerTime: 10:00 A.M.Location: Soldiers &amp; Sailors Memorial Hall &amp; Museum, North OaklandMeeting With Parkland Students From Stoneman Douglass High SchoolTime: 1:00 P.M.Location: Mayor's Conference Room, City-County BuildingOperation Better Block Fundraising GalaTime: 5:00 P.M.Location: Omni William Penn Hotel, Central Business District | 5/4/2019 09:00:03 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Monday, April 8, 2019 | Meeting With Jorge AranovichTime: 11:30 A.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County BuildingMeeting With Chief Of Staff Daniel Gilman, Director Of Innovation &amp; Performance Santiago Garces, &amp; Acting Director Of Management &amp; Budget Jennifer OlzingerTime: 1:00 P.M.Location: Mayor's Conference Room, City-County BuildingCall With Former Charleston Mayor Joseph P. RileyTime: 2:30 P.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County BuildingInterview With WESA's Kevin GavinTime: 3:30 P.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County Building | 8/4/2019 07:57:18 |
| Micro Loan Program Assisting Minority and Women Owned Businesses to be Extended | PITTSBURGH, PA (April 8, 2019) A successful micro loan program helping small businesses that was started last year with the support of Mayor William Peduto is set to become permanent. The Micro-Enterprise Loan Program started in 2018 by the Urban Redevelopment Authority of Pittsburgh offers loans of up to $20,000 to businesses citywide to promote opportunities for those groups who historically have not had ready access to early stage business startup and expansion capital, including minority – and women – entrepreneurs. The loans help cover costs of machinery and equipment, working capital, and site improvements, including façade renovations. Over the past year the URA has made 23 such loans with 96% of them issued to minority and women-owned businesses.  Started as a pilot program, the URA board is set to vote Thursday to make the loan program permanent.  The program follows the p4 development model advocated by Mayor Peduto, which focuses on people, planet, place and performance. Mayor Peduto announced the loan program at last year’s Inclusive Innovation Week. The program is administered by the URA's Center for Innovation and Entrepreneurship and other URA staff with the assistance of 3rd party advisory committees to provide financial underwriting guidance and technical assistance to borrowers. | 8/4/2019 10:55:01 |
| URA to Adopt Environmentally Friendly Clean Construction Guidelines | PITTSBURGH, PA (April 9, 2019) The board of the Urban Redevelopment Authority of Pittsburgh is set Thursday to adopt the City’s “Clean Construction” guidelines. The guidelines require all city government construction projects costing $2.5 million or more to use diesel emission control strategies on construction vehicles, including the use of ultra-low sulfur diesel fuel. The guidelines require the use of the best available control technology, such as a diesel particulate filter, on all on-road vehicles, like dump trucks, and off-road equipment, such as backhoes and bulldozers, that are involved in the projects.  The Clean Construction guidelines were introduced by then City Councilman William Peduto in 2011 and then revised in 2016 to make them easier to follow for contractors. The McFarren Bridge project in the city’s Duck Hollow neighborhood was the first major project to come under the revised guidelines.Environmental advocates have long called for city-affiliated agencies such as the URA to adopt Clean Construction policies. “Adoption of this policy by the URA will have a positive impact on the environment and those working on and living near the construction projects, where the policy applies and is implemented,” says the resolution going before the board on Thursday. | 9/4/2019 09:09:35 |
| Statement by Mayor William Peduto on Announcement by URA Executive Director Rubinstein | PITTSBURGH, PA (April 9, 2019) Mayor William Peduto released the following statement today regarding the announcement by Robert Rubinstein that he will be stepping down as Executive Director of the Urban Redevelopment Authority of Pittsburgh: "I want to thank Robert for his years of leadership on behalf of city residents, communities and businesses, and his dedication to URA staff. Pittsburgh wouldn't be what it is today without him.  I look forward to working with Robert in his new role." | 9/4/2019 11:21:22 |
| Mayor William Peduto Signs Legislation on Firearms and Gun Violence | PITTSBURGH, PA (April 9, 2019) Surrounded by family members and friends of those killed on October 27 at the Tree of Life synagogue in Squirrel Hill and others affected by gun violence, Mayor William Peduto today signed new firearms regulations approved last week by Pittsburgh City Council. The Mayor noted that the common sense measures he and Council were approving would not only help safeguard those targeted by mass shootings but also help address the gun violence plaguing city neighborhoods every day. “If Washington and Harrisburg refuse to recognize this is a public health emergency, and refuse to stand up to gun manufacturers, then we must take action to challenge laws and protect our people,” the Mayor said. Bills sponsored by the two council members representing Squirrel Hill – Corey O’Connor and Erika Strassburger – ban the use of assault weapons in the city; the use of certain ammunition and modified guns; and implements Extreme Risk Protection Orders, in which courts would temporarily take firearms away from those shown to be a danger to themselves or others.  The Mayor also signed legislation on the STOP the Violence initiative headed by Councilmen Rev. Ricky Burgess and R. Daniel Lavelle. “This is an historic day for Pittsburgh” said Councilman O’Connor. “I want to thank my Co-Sponsor, Councilperson Strassburger, and my colleagues who supported this common sense gun legislation that is a step forward in keeping our city safe.” “I am proud to have been a part of authoring these ordinances that rein in the use of assault weapons and certain firearm accessories, protect Pittsburgh’s children from the dangers of firearms, fund anti-violence and Group Violence Intervention initiatives, help to address suicide, family violence, and group violence in our communities, and increase public safety in our neighborhoods, public places, places of worship, and other institutions,” Councilperson Strassburger said. “I look forward to building on the progress of passing these ordinances and continuing to create a more peaceful and safer Pittsburgh. I thank Mayor Peduto and my Council colleagues for their support, especially fellow prime sponsor Councilman O’Connor for his leadership.” Last weekend the city hosted students and family members of those killed at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Fla., to push for stronger gun regulations nationwide. On Wednesday Mayor Peduto will attend a meeting by the U.S. Conference of Mayors in Toledo to discuss strategies to reduce gun violence. | 9/4/2019 13:21:35 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Tuesday, April 9, 2019 | Legislative MeetingTime: 12:00 P.M.Location: Mayor's Conference Room, City-County BuildingNational Center For Employee Ownership Annual Conference's Opening SessionTime: 1:00 P.M.Location: David L. Lawrence Convention Center, Central Business District | 9/4/2019 08:59:20 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Wednesday, April 10, 2019 | PITTSBURGH, PA (April 10, 2019) Mayor William Peduto is in Toledo, Ohio, today for a U.S. Conference of Mayors meeting on strategies to reduce gun violence. Mayors and police officials from several cities are expected to attend the session, which is being convened by Cincinnati Mayor John Cranley, chair of USCOM’s Mayors and Police Chiefs Task Force. Yesterday Mayor Peduto signed bills approved by Pittsburgh City Council to ban the use of assault weapons and certain kinds of ammunition in the city; institute Extreme Risk Protection Orders; and support the STOP the Violence initiative in city neighborhoods. He returns to Pittsburgh this afternoon. Mayor William Peduto’s Public Schedule – Wednesday, April 10, 2019: Panel on Reducing Gun Violence Through Municipal Gun Safety Ordinances and Navigating State Preemption Time: 9:45 a.m. Panel on Encouraging Responsible Practices by Firearm and Ammunition Manufacturers Through Municipal Procurement Policies Time: 11 a.m. Panel on Preventing Gun Violence Through Red Flag and Other Extreme Risk Laws Time: 1 p.m. | 10/4/2019 09:29:38 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Thursday, April 11, 2019 | Seymore &amp; Corinne Krause Commons Affordable Housing Ribbon CuttingTime: 10:00 A.M.Location: Murray Avenue, Squirrel Hill SouthInterview With MSNBCTime: 11:30 A.M.Location: Gateway Towers Studios, Central Business DistrictAll In Pittsburgh EventTime: 12:00 P.M.Location: Kelly-Strayhorn Theater, East LibertyInterview With WTAE-TV's Paul Van OsdolTime: 2:00 P.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County BuildingCenter for VIctims' Technology ShowcaseTime: 4:30 P.M.Location: 3433 East Carson Street, South Side FlatsThe Elly AwardsTime: 7:00 P.M.Location Rivers Casino, Chateau | 11/4/2019 08:49:11 |
| Portion of Forbes Avenue to Close for Tree Removal and Pruning | PITTSBURGH, PA (April 11, 2019) The Department of Mobility and Infrastructure is announcing that Forbes Avenue in Squirrel Hill will be closed between South Dallas and Braddock avenues on April 13, 2019, from 7:00 a.m. to 1:00 p.m., to allow for tree removal by the Department of Public Works’ Forestry Division. No posted detours will be provided.Those with questions may contact Lisa Ceoffe, City Forester, at 412-665-3626. | 11/4/2019 15:06:21 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Thursday, April 11, 2019 |  | 11/4/2019 08:49:15 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Thursday, April 11, 2019 |  | 11/4/2019 08:49:16 |
| Mayor William Peduto Recipient of the CEDAW Global Leadership Award | PITTSBURGH, PA (April 12, 2019) Mayor William Peduto has been chosen as the 2019 recipient of the CEDAW Global Leadership Award by the United Nations NGO Committee on the Status of Women/New York.The Convention on the Elimination of all Forms of Discrimination against Women (CEDAW) is an international treaty adopted in 1979 by the United Nations General Assembly and ratified by 189 countries.The United States is one of five countries that failed to ratify the treaty, but in December 2016, Pittsburgh became the 6th U.S. city to adopt an ordinance based on CEDAW principles.   The Cities for CEDAW campaign in Pittsburgh is led by a coalition of NGOs, including WILPF/Pittsburgh, New Voices Pittsburgh and the Women and Girls Foundation.Mayor Peduto and members of the city council partnered with these NGOs. The ratification of CEDAW ordinance in 2016 aimed to improve the lives of all women and girls in the City of Pittsburgh by reducing and eliminating violence against women and girls, ensure better access to economic development opportunities and access to quality education opportunities. Recognizing that discrimination in these areas also affects the health and well-being of women and girls, the City seeks ways to improve or complement the work that is already being done at the Allegheny County Department of Human Services and Pittsburgh Public Safety Department. The award was issued during an event last month in New York City. | 12/4/2019 09:29:02 |
| Media Advisory: Mayor William Peduto to Hold Press Conference With CORE | Media AdvisoryPITTSBURGH, PA (April 12, 2019) Mayor William Peduto will hold a press conference this afternoon to present a proclamation to CORE (Center for Organ Recovery &amp; Education).WHO: Mayor William PedutoCORE Donor Brenda TateCORE Recipient Craig SmithJoy StarzlMax &amp; Sue SciulloWHERE: Mayor’s Conference Room, 414 Grant St.WHEN: 1:30 P.M., Friday, April 12, 2019 | 12/4/2019 09:47:08 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Friday, April 12, 2019 | Presenting Proclamation For Donor AwarenessTime: 1:30 P.M.Location: Mayor's Conference Room, City-County BuildingMeeting With Waynesburg University Stover ScholarsTime: 2:30 P.M.Location: Mayor's Conference Room, City-County BuildingMeeting With Jim Turner &amp; Paul LegerTime: 3:00 P.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County BuildingKontos, Mengine, Killion &amp; Hassen 6th Annual Firm PartyTime: 6:00 P.M.Location: Distrikt Hotel, Central Business District | 12/4/2019 08:19:23 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Monday, April 15, 2019 | Pittsburgh Bureau Of Police Awards CeremonyTime: 10:00 A.M.Location: CCAC Allegheny Campus - Foerster Student Service Center, Allegheny WestSpeaking At Press Conference On Tax Fraud &amp; The Reduction Of Government RevenuesTime: 12:00 P.M.Location: Market Square, Central Business DistrictPittsburgh Bureau Of Emergency Medical Services Promotional CeremonyTime: 2:00 P.M.Location: Council Chamber, City-County BuildingMeeting With Suzanne RomeroTime: 3:00 P.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County Building | 15/4/2019 08:26:59 |
| City Offices and Citiparks Facilities Closed in Observance of Good Friday | PITTSBURGH, PA (April 15, 2019) - The City of Pittsburgh offices and Citiparks will be closed on Friday, April 19, 2019 in observance of Good Friday.   Department of Public Works advises that refuse, bulk waste or recycling collection on Friday, April 19, 2019 will continue as scheduled.   Questions concerning refuse collection should be directed to the Bureau Environmental Services at (412) 255-2773.    The following Citiparks facilities will adjust operating hours during the week of Monday, April 15 to Sunday, April 21 as follows:   Health Active Living Centers (Senior Centers):- All Healthy Active Living Center will be closed on Good Friday     - Note: These centers are not  regularly open Saturday and Sundays     Recreation Centers:- From Monday, April 15 to Thursday, April 18, Recreation Center hours are as follows:     - Ammon, Brookline, Magee, and Phillips: 9:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.     - Jefferson, Ormsby, Warrington and Paulson: 10:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.     - West Penn: 9:00 a.m. to 9:00 p.m.     - All Recreation Centers will be closed: Friday, April 19, Saturday April, 20 and Sunday, April, 21.     Oliver Bath House:- Friday, April 19 Closed (Good Friday)     - Saturday, April 20 Closed 12:00 p.m. - 5:00 p.m. (Lifeguard Recertification)     - Sunday, April 21 Closed (Easter)      Mellon Tennis Bubble:- Sunday, April 21 Closed (Easter)   After-School Feeding Program- There will be no After-School Food Service at Ammon Rec, Ormsby Rec, Warrington Rec, Sheraden HAL, Salvation Army-Homewood, Manchester Craftmen’s Guild, Carnegie Library Pittsburgh—Woods Run or Church of the Holy Cross from April 15-19, 2019.  After-School Food Service will resume normal operations on Monday, April 22, 2019. | 15/4/2019 10:17:16 |
| Get Your City of Pittsburgh Tax Receipt with Pittsburgh's Online Public Budget Tool | Links EditedPITTSBURGH, PA (April 15, 2019) This Tax Day, City of Pittsburgh taxpayers can see where their local taxes go by using the Office of Management and Budget (OMB)’s online public budget tool Balancing Act. This tool provides transparent information about the city’s budgets and allows the community to submit feedback that will inform next year’s budgets.  Balancing Act gives taxpayers an opportunity to see what their tax money is spent on, understand the Capital and Operating budgets, change spending allocations, and leave comments on the City’s budgets through these three tools: Tax Receipt – Enter your income and the value of any property you own in the City of Pittsburgh to receive an itemized receipt of what your taxes pay for. Try Tax ReceiptCapital Budget Simulator – Explore how your tax dollars are distributed amongst departments and projects, see detailed explanations for spending items and add your changes and comments. Try Capital BudgetOperating Budget Simulator – Try your hand at managing the city’s books and explore financial breakdowns of operating spending. Try Operating BudgetAfter creating their own budgets, users can submit them and they will be reviewed by OMB, the Office of Mayor William Peduto, City Council and City Departments for the development of the 2020 budgets.  This is the second year that OMB has used the online program to supplement feedback gathered at their two annual public capital budget forums to be held this summer. To be notified of the capital budget forums, sign up for the Office of Community Affairs’ newsletter at newsletter.pittsburghpa.gov. | 15/4/2019 11:18:04 |
| City Ballfields to be Updated with Funding from Pirates Charities | PITTSBURGH, PA (April 15, 2018) Two City of Pittsburgh baseball fields are set to be updated this spring with funding assistance from Pirates Charities, the philanthropic arm of the Pittsburgh Pirates.Pirates Charities’ “Fields for Kids” program is donating $20,000 to the City to update Dinan Field in Stanton Heights – also known as the Officer Eric Kelly Memorial Field – and Devlin Field in Arlington.Each field will have their infields resurfaced and new dugouts installed. Once approved by Pittsburgh City Council, the improvements could be started by the end of this month. Department of Public Works crews will do the work (while working around schedules of teams permitted to use the fields).“I want to thank the Pirates for these kind donations, which will not only improve athletic opportunities for youth, but further honor the life and service of Officer Kelly,” Mayor William Peduto said.Pirates Charities is donating $10,000 to each field project through the Fields for Kids program that provides financial support to improve youth baseball and/or softball facilities.  Since the Fields for Kids program’s inception in 2009, more than 330 individual grants have been distributed in the greater Pittsburgh region.“We are proud of the positive impact the Fields for Kids program has had on thousands of kids throughout our region by helping to give them an opportunity to focus on productive activities and positive interaction with their peers, coaches and parents,” Pirates Charities Chairman Bob Nutting said.  “We are excited to partner with Mayor Peduto and the City to improve these two fields, and especially honored to help to continue to honor the life and legacy of Officer Kelly.”Legislation accepting the donations is being introduced to Council tomorrow. | 15/4/2019 13:12:42 |
| City Opens Applications for Free Lawn Cutting Service | PITTSBURGH, PA (April 15, 2019) The City of Pittsburgh is now accepting applications for the second of year of its City Cuts lawn-cutting program. It is a free program for veterans, people over the age of 62, and those with a disability who do not have the financial or social means to assist with lawn care.City Cuts began in 2018 through legislation introduced by Councilwoman Theresa Kail-Smith, and assisted more than 950 Pittsburgh seniors and those with disabilities with lawn cutting last year.“City Cuts improves the look of the community and helps people who need a helping hand,” the councilwoman said. Applications are accepted on a first come, first serve basis. The City has the budget and capacity to serve 1,000 neighbors with twice monthly cuts from May through October.“We are looking forward to building on the 2018 pilot year to provide better service to residents. Improvements to the program will include hiring more contractors to cut lawns twice a month from May through October,” Mayor William Peduto said.Fourteen local contractors and community based organizations are being awarded contracts this year, up from five last year. Each contractor included a community development profile highlighting their neighborhood involvement in their response to Request for Proposals issued on the City’s procurement website, Beacon.There are four ways for residents to apply: - Visit the City Cuts website and select ‘Click to Apply Online’- Visit one of 18 Carnegie Library branches to fill out an application and mail it to the City. - Visit one of 13 Citiparks Healthy Active Living Centers to fill out an application.and mail it to the City.- Call the Mayor’s 311 Response Line at 311 or (412) 255-2621Applicants must own their own home and live within City of Pittsburgh boundaries. | 15/4/2019 13:56:41 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Tuesday, April 16, 2019 | Presenting Proclamation To House Of Soul Band In Recognition Of 25th AnniversaryTime: 10:00 A.M.Location: Mayor's Conference Room, City-County BuildingCelebrating 60th Anniversary Of Dollar Bank Three Rivers Arts FestivalTime: 11:00 A.M.Location: Pittsburgh Cultural Trust Arts Education Center, Central Business District Press Conference On Pittsburgh's Department Of Permits, Licences, &amp; Inspections OneStopPGH WebsiteTime: 1:00 P.M.Location: Mayor's Conference Room, City-County BuildingPhone Call With Civic Enterprises CEO John BridgelandTime: 1:30 P.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County BuildingUnited Way's "Toasting The Titans"Time: 5:00 P.M.Location: Omni William Penn Hotel, Central Business District | 16/4/2019 07:43:45 |
| PLI Continues Successful Online Licensing Launch: More Than 1,200 Registered | PITTSBURGH, PA (April 16, 2019) In December, the Department of Permits, Licenses, and Inspections launched Phase 1 of OneStopPGH, a one-stop-shop for many of the City’s permitting and licensing services. Three months the rollout of Phase 1, and with the busiest season still ahead, more than 1,200 customers have successfully registered for their license via the OneStopPGH online portal.The OneStopPGH portal allows trade, contractor and business license holders to apply for, amend, and renew licenses online. This first phase of the OneStopPGH project will bring the City’s development permitting and property maintenance processes online over the coming year.Citizens may also use the OneStopPGH licensing database to look up existing business license holders via name, address, or license number, which is available here.The online licensing launch is part of a larger licensing overhaul by PLI. Last year the department rewrote the City’s business licensing code for the first time since the 1980s and recalibrated license fees based on a study of associated Departmental time and costs.Online business licensing was the first of a four part project to bring all of Pittsburgh’s development processes online, making it easier to live and work in the City. PLI and Department of City Planning permitting is set to go online this summer, and Department of Mobility and Infrastructure and Fire Bureau permits to follow later this year.In anticipation of a busy spring and summer season, PLI held a community forum earlier this month to hear from customers directly.The forum complemented PLI’s continued outreach efforts to educate and support trade, contractor and business license customers with navigating the OneStopPGH portal. Customers have also received postcards, the online newsletter the PLI Press, outreach via social media, and even on-site visits to offer one-on-one help and support.Another community forum will be held May 10 at 9 a.m. The meeting will be held at 200 Ross Street in the first floor conference room. Follow this link to register.For an overview of the OneStopPGH project, as well as step-by step instructional videos on how to create an OneStopPGH account and more, please visit here.Stay up to date on all things PLI:Follow us on twitter: https://twitter.com/PLIpghFollow us on Facebook: http://www.facebook.com/Department-of-Permits-Licenses-and-Inspections-1466309000366397Sign up for the PLI Newsletter: http://pittsburghpa.gov/pli/community-resources-newsletter | 16/4/2019 12:49:49 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Wednesday, April 17, 2019 | Presenting Proclamation To Journeys Of Life Shadyside On Occasion Of RetirementTime: 11:00 A.M.Location: Journey's Of Life, Bellefonte Street, ShadysideWeekly Meeting With Director Of Public Safety Wendell Hissrich &amp; Chief Of Police Scott SchubertTime: 2:00 P.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County BuildingLeadership Pittsburgh's The Big Table EventTime: 3:00 P.M.Location: Mayor's Conference Room, City-County BuildingInterview With BCAP Youth Arts TeamTime: 4:00 P.M.Location: Mayor's Conference Room, City-County Building | 17/4/2019 08:44:51 |
| Public Art Introduced to Paulson Spray Park and Playground | PITTSBURGH, PA (April 17, 2019) The City of Pittsburgh is pleased to present the integration of public art at the soon to be unveiled Paulson Spray Park and Playground,  in the neighborhood of Lincoln-Lemington-Belmar.  The art project is a collaboration between the Department of Public Works (DPW) and the Public Art and Civic Design Division (PA+CD) of the Department of City Planning.The renovation of Paulson Park began in 2016 as a collaboration among DPW, Pashek+MTR, and the community, with the resulting Master Plan including improvements to the existing pool house, the installation of new play equipment, and redesigned landscaping.  While the initial design intent was to include tinted concrete on the splash pad surface, DPW utilized the City’s 1% per art requirement for this renovation project, and worked with PA+CD to instead fund the commissioning of new art for the hardscape surface, with additional funding set aside for the restoration of an existing piece of the City’s Art Collection, located on site since the early 1980’s."We are excited about the rehab of the pool into a new spray park facility for all of the Lincoln Lemington families,” said Councilman Rev. Ricky Burgess. “Thank you to Mayor Peduto and the Department of Public Works for bringing this amenity into the community for the residents.”On June 27th, 2018, PA+CD and the Office of Management and Budget released a Request for Proposals to solicit artists, artist collectives, and designers to propose concepts for this new public art intervention. A City committee evaluated the projects under a scoring system that took into consideration the overall concept of the project with regard to creativity, innovation, aesthetics, and material presence; the applicant’s qualifications, experience, and references; their connection to the neighborhood; and the cost proposal. Ultimately the award went to artist Will Schlough, a graduate of Carnegie Mellon University and an accomplished muralist. His proposal of a vibrant underwater environment will transform the pavement into an interactive playspace, incorporating themes of nature and encouraging children in active play. The mural will work together with the new park equipment and landscaping to create a colorful and lively atmosphere in the renovated park.Schlough states that the primary goal of his artistic practice “is to create surprising, enjoyable, and thought-provocative works in public spaces as a means to creatively enhance the daily lives of the public.”  His work creates unique narratives that cleverly interact with the surrounding environment, providing moments of reflection, humor, and humanity that permeate beyond the work itself.In addition to the commission of new original artwork, PA+CD worked with a professional team led by Glen Gardner and Electrokote to restore Pipe Movement in Blue by Josefa Filkosky, an outstanding piece of the City’s Art Collection. This artwork has been entirely refurbished and installed at the entrance to the park. This eye-catching metal sculpture complements Schlough’s design and creates a harmonious and engaging composition for the park as a whole.In this project, as with many others, the Public Art and Civic Design Division is working in collaboration with other departments in the City of Pittsburgh, with the hope of not only nurturing the talent of artists but also of adding to the aesthetic look and feel of the city.Photo credits:Top: SC PhotoBottom: City of PittsburghFor questions about the art or artists contact:Yesica Guerra                                                                                       Public Art and Civic Design ManagerCity of Pittsburgh Department of City Planning200 Ross St. 4th floor, Pittsburgh, PA 15219[p] 412.255.8996[e] yesica.guerra@pittsburghpa.govFor questions about the park contact:Andrea KetzelSenior Project Landscape ArchitectCity of Pittsburgh Department of Public Works414 Grant St. Room 301, Pittsburgh, PA 15219[p] 412-255-8852[e] andrea.ketzel@pittsburghpa.gov | 17/4/2019 10:47:48 |
| City of Pittsburgh Releases Initial 2019 Street Paving List | PITTSBURGH, PA (April 17. 2019)  The City of Pittsburgh Department of Mobility and Infrastructure (DOMI) today announced the release of the first round of streets for asphalt pavement resurfacing for the 2019 paving season.  The 2019 Capital Budget dedicated over $20 million to street rehabilitation with more than $15 million of that amount dedicated to asphalt resurfacing. The balance will rehabilitate numerous brick, blockstone and concrete streets; improve curb ramps for accessibility; replace and enhance pavement markings; and purchase pothole patching materials. The $20 million is the most budgeted for street upgrades in decades, and follows $17 million in paving spent in 2018, which itself was double the street improvements spent by previous administrations. DOMI’s street resurfacing homepage lists the first set of 2019 paving projects by Council District, by a full list in PDF form, and through an interactive citywide map. The streets announced today represent the first round of seasonal paving. Additional streets will be added when a new paving contract is awarded, which is expected in the coming weeks. The City is continuing to improve coordination between city paving work and public utility work in the streets, and additional streets will be paved this year through cost sharing cooperative agreements with the utility companies. This list will be released in the coming weeks.  In order to best protect public assets and dollars, streets identified for scheduled utility work within the next two years were deferred from the 2019 list to enable utility work to proceed prior to street resurfacing. | 17/4/2019 11:07:38 |
| City Releases Second Pittsburgh Equity Indicators Report | PITTSBURGH, PA (April 18, 2019) The City of Pittsburgh released the second annual report on the Pittsburgh Equity Indicators: a set of 80 measures that report disparities by race, gender, or income in four domains: Health, Food, and Safety; Education, Workforce Development, and Entrepreneurship; Housing, Transportation, Infrastructure, and Environment; and Civic Engagement and Communications. This report is a follow-up to a 2017 baseline report. Both reports shed light on the problem areas in which Pittsburgh’s residents of different races, genders, and incomes experience vastly different health, social, and economic outcomes, and access to resources and opportunities. The second report shows the change in equality scores from last year’s baseline.“This analysis is a start towards untangling the deep roots of inequality that exist in this city. By integrating the Equity Indicators into our work, we are aligning budgets, staff and policies to increase effectiveness and efficiency, and providing a government that better serves the people, planet, place and performance of this great city,” said Mayor William Peduto.This work is being conducted as a partnership between the Bureau of Neighborhood Empowerment of the Mayor’s Office and the Department of City Planning’s Sustainability and Resilience Division. Implementing the Equity Indicators methodology is an action identified in the ONEPGH Resilience Strategy released in 2017, which outlined racial and economic inequity and regional fragmentation as chronic stresses impacting the resilience of Pittsburgh. The City is using this analysis to guide budget and policy decisions, and together with The Forbes Funds, is convening partners for collective action to further analyze and address the lowest performing indicators: homicides, homelessness, childhood asthma hospitalizations, infant mortality, and residents without bank accounts.“The value of our partnership with the City is to provide a framework for addressing the challenges in our sector that are the result of a rapidly changing environment. This partnership allows us to align our work as a capacity-building organization with the City’s resources to achieve stronger community outcomes,” said Fred Brown, President and CEO of The Forbes Funds.Since the initial report, the City has focused increasing attention and resources towards those areas showing the greatest disparities by race, and partnered with The Forbes Funds to turn statistics into collaborative action items. As a start to implementation, the Mayor’s Office has announced investments of $10 million into the Housing Opportunity Fund, $2 million into funding quality childcare centers, and $500,000 into a new Stop the Violence initiative; the City and Neighborhood Allies recently announced the development of Financial Empowerment Centers; the Division of Sustainability and Resilience released its third Climate Action Plan and is working towards a transition to renewable sources of energy to improve air quality; all current and new Pittsburgh police officers are required to receive implicit bias training; the Bureau of Neighborhood Empowerment will launch a new book-gifting program this summer for Pittsburgh children; and Public Safety now offers free safety training to childcare providers.The overall 2018 city equality score remains the same as the 2017 city equality score. However, scores for individual indicators show some variability. For example, the disparity between black residents and white residents with a city capital project being planned or implemented in their neighborhood virtually disappeared from 2017 to 2018, resulting in an indicator score of 100. Also of note is a dramatic reduction in homicide victimization rates among black residents, down from 62 per 100,000 in 2017 to 28 in 2018. That said, while the rate dropped dramatically, the disparity between the black and white populations did not, contributing to a low equality score for homicides again in 2018. Similarly, child asthma hospitalization rates decreased by 35% and 30% for black and white children respectively between 2015 and 2016, but the disparity score decreased. This analysis is a valuable tool for looking at outcomes over time, focused on the different experiences for disparate groups.“The Equity Indicators methodology represents a good first step toward identifying areas in which Pittsburghers experience vastly different outcomes based on race or income. The next steps will be to further investigate and act upon structural or systemic factors that may help to explain why some indicators are improving over time, while others are not improving, or even worsening”, said Linnea Warren May, a policy analyst at the RAND Corporation.The Department of City Planning and Bureau of Neighborhood Empowerment partnered with the RAND Corporation to conduct the analysis described in the report, and received funding and technical support from the CUNY Institute for State and Local Governance and 100 Resilient Cities – Pioneered by The Rockefeller Foundation (100RC) over a two year period. ISLG developed the original Equality Indicators methodology through its pilot tool for New York City, which has measured the city’s progress toward greater equality for the past four years across several domains. Pittsburgh was one of five cities selected to participate in ISLG’s expansion of the Equality/Equity Indicators initiative, along with Dallas, TX; Oakland, CA; St. Louis, MO; and Tulsa, OK.“Pittsburgh is a great example of the power of data to drive change,” said Michael Jacobson, Executive Director of ISLG. “These reports, and the actions taken by the City since the baseline findings were released, show that the City has committed to not only measuring disparities from year to year, but putting in the work to address them. In this way, Pittsburgh can serve as a model for other cities looking to make lasting changes to the inequalities faced by their disadvantaged residents.”Read the full Pittsburgh Equity Indicators report at equityindicators.pittsburghpa.govRAND CorporationThe RAND Corporation is a non-profit, non-partisan research organization. RAND develops solutions to public policy challenges to help make communities throughout the world safer and more secure, healthier and more prosperous.CUNY Institute for State and Local GovernanceThe Institute for State and Local Governance (ISLG) is a nonpartisan research and policy institute within the City University of New York (CUNY). The Institute’s mission is to work with government and non-government organizations to improve systems to produce better results worthy of public investment and trust. We aim to advance data-driven approaches that influence policy and operations and that support work in diverse communities. In short, we help government—and organizations connected to it—do better. We focus on working with cities and states because they are ideal laboratories for developing new approaches to longstanding social problems, and are ripe with opportunities and momentum for real, sustainable change. For more information, please visit islg.cuny.edu.100 Resilient Cities100 Resilient Cities – Pioneered by The Rockefeller Foundation (100RC) helps cities around the world become more resilient to social, economic, and physical challenges that are a growing part of the 21st century. 100RC provides this assistance through: funding for a Chief Resilience Officer in each of our cities who will lead the resilience efforts; resources for drafting a Resilience Strategy; access to private sector, public sector, academic, and NGO resilience tools; and membership in a global network of peer cities to share best practices and challenges. For more information, visit: www.100ResilientCities.org.The Forbes FundsThe Forbes Funds advances the well-being of our region by helping human service and community-based nonprofits build their management capacity and increase the impact of their mission work. The Forbes Funds support these nonprofits both as individual organizations and as a unified coalition of leaders, funders, and advocates working collaboratively throughout southwestern Pennsylvania. | 18/4/2019 10:35:34 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Monday, April 22, 2019 | Meeting with County Executive Rich FitzgeraldTime: 11:00 A.M.Location: Office of the County Executive, Allegheny County CourthouseMeeting with Mubarik IsmaeliTime: 3:00 P.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County BuildingSpeaking at Carnegie Mellon University  New Impact and Cleanteach Club Screening of Paris to PittsburghTime: 5:30 P.M.Location: Carnegie Mellon Simmons Auditorium | 22/4/2019 09:13:05 |
| City Set to Remodel Six Fire Stations | PITTSBURGH, PA (April 22, 2019) Six Pittsburgh Bureau of Fire stations are in line to be remodeled under legislation being introduced to Pittsburgh City Council tomorrow. The Department of Public Works is seeking approval to spend up to $407,872 to for architectural and engineering design services at the six stations. Upgrades are set to include: - New bunk room configurations, toilet, shower and locker room updates and/or remodels   - Kitchen updates and/or remodels   - Updated HVAC, electrical, plumbing, and lighting where needed   - Turnout gear locker installations   - ADA accommodations   The six stations (including their company/station numbers) are: - #19 on Homestead Street in Swisshelm Park   - #23 on Brownsville Road in Carrick   - #26 on Brookline Boulevard in Brookline   - #34 on Perrysville Avenue in Perry North   - #35 on Orchlee Street in Brighton Heights   - #38 on Essen Street in Northview Heights   Once approved, the design work is expected to take six to nine months to complete. Remodeling of the stations will then occur in 2020. | 22/4/2019 09:55:06 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Tuesday, April 23, 2019 | Speaking at VisitPittsburgh Press ConferenceTime: 10:00 A.M.Location: Bricolage Production Company, Central Business DistrictSpeaking at African American Chamber of Commerce of Western Pennsylvania Annual LuncheonTime: 12:00 P.M.Location: Omni William Penn Hotel, Central Business DistrictSpeaking at Cities of Inclusion SummitTime: 12:30 P.MLocation: Hyundai Club - PNC Park, North ShoreMeeting with County Executive Rich Fitzgerald, Senator Jay Costa, &amp; Senator Wayne FontanaTime: 4:00 P.M.Location: Office of the County Executive, Allegheny County CourthouseLaunch Of Homewood Community PlanTime: 6:00 P.M.Location: Bethany Baptist Church, Homewood South | 23/4/2019 09:25:48 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Wednesday, April 24, 2019 | Meeting With Mubarik IsmaeliTime: 11:30 A.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County BuildingMeeting With Rod FrantzTime: 1:00 P.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County BuildingWeekly Meeting With Director Of Public Safety Wendell Hissrich &amp; Chief Of Police Scott SchubertTime: 2:00 P.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County BuildingMeeting With Councilwoman Theresa Kail-Smith, Chief Of Staff Daniel Gilman, Director Of Public Safety Wendell Hissrich, &amp; Chief Of Police Scott SchubertTime: 3:00 P.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County BuildingMeeting With Max DennisonTime: 4:00 P.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County BuildingSpeaking at Interfaith Vigil for Sri LankaTime: 6:00 P.M.Location: Heinz Chapel, Central Oakland | 24/4/2019 08:49:58 |
| City Releases Initial Summary of Findings on Autonomous Vehicle Testing | PITTSBURGH, PA (April 25, 2019) The City of Pittsburgh Department of Mobility and Infrastructure has released its first summary of findings on autonomous vehicle testing in the city, which lists the kinds of vehicles being tested around Pittsburgh, in what neighborhoods, the safety provisions being used, and job creation by the growing industry. The findings follow Mayor William Peduto’s Executive Order on AV testing. Announced in March, the Order was the first of its kind in the nation, outlining objectives and expectations for the safe testing of the vehicles, and assigning responsibilities for the development of transparent and constructive reporting guidelines for the technology sector.   “The information provided by the five testers in the City provide us with critical insight into the scale, location and conditions of testing and safety protocols. This information is vital to a working partnership capable of advancing innovation while protecting the public,” DOMI Director Karina Ricks said. The DOMI report is the initial summary of findings since the adoption of the Mayor’s order.  The report – generated with the assistance of five entities performing AV testing in the city – lists all kinds of information about the vehicles and their technology.  Information includes: - The number of vehicles being tested on city streets, including their makes and models   - Neighborhoods and times in which the vehicles are being tested    - A list of safety provisions, including driver screening and driver testing (despite being “autonomous” all AV vehicles have a high level of human interaction and management)   - A list of the kinds of equipment and systems being used in the vehicles   A copy of the summary of findings is available here. A copy of the reporting guidelines for AV testing entities issued by DOMI in March is available here. | 25/4/2019 09:51:47 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Thursday, April 25, 2019 | Carnegie Mellon University - Brookings Institute PanelTime: 12:00 P.M.Location: Carnegie Mellon University - Hamburg Hall, Squirrel Hill NorthWeekly Scheduling MeetingTime: 2:00 P.M.Location: Mayor's Conference Room, City-County BuildingChildren's Museum - Museum Lab Thank You GalaTime: 6:00 P.M.Location: Museum Lab, Allegheny Center | 25/4/2019 07:50:48 |
| Wolf Administration Awards Pittsburgh Grants for Electric Vehicle Fleet | PITTSBURGH, PA (April 25, 2019) Governor Tom Wolf’s administration today awarded the City of Pittsburgh more than $200,000 to support its electric vehicle fleet. The state Department of Environmental Protection awarded southwest Pennsylvania more than $1 million in grants for nine clean energy vehicle projects that will help improve air quality and public health. All told, the projects will reduce annual annual greenhouse gas emissions by 5,745 metric tons. The City of Pittsburgh was awarded $135,160 to add eight electric vehicle charging stations to its fleet lot, and $67,500 to add nine electric vehicles to the fleet. Such vehicles are used by the Department of Permits, Licenses and Inspections and other city departments. “I want to thank Governor Wolf for this investment in making the city’s air and environment safer and more sustainable,” Mayor William Peduto said. | 25/4/2019 16:06:15 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Friday, April 26, 2019 | Pittsburgh Shade Tree Commission's Tree Seedling GiveawayTime: 11:00 A.M.Location: Market Square, Central Business DistrictMeeting With Executive Director Of The Trade Institute Of Pittsburgh  Steve SheltonTime: 1:00 P.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County BuildingPittsburgh Bureau Of Police Promotion CeremonyTime: 2:00 P.M.Location: Council Chamber, City-County BuildingTake Center Stage: The August Wilson Center GalaTime: 6:00 P.M.Location: August Wilson African American Cultural Center, Central Business District | 26/4/2019 07:48:03 |
| 2019 Spring Yard Waste Collection Guidelines | PITTSBURGH, PA (April 26, 2019) The City of Pittsburgh will conduct its first special biannual curbside yard waste collection on Saturday, May 4, 2019. Resident participation in this program supports the effort to sustaining a healthy environment by diverting valuable resources from landfills.  Yard waste includes: leaves, branches (4-inch diameter or less), brush, and grass.  Leaves, brush, and grass should be placed in paper bags with a weight limit of 35 pounds per bag. Branches (4 inch diameter or less) should be bundled with fiber twine or natural rope in branch lengths of 5 feet or less. Materials must be placed at the curb in your regular recycling/ refuse pick up spot before 6:00 a.m. the morning of service.  Yard waste should NOT contain any of the following prohibited materials; plastic bags, metal or wire, rocks, blocks, bricks, soil, dirt, gravel, glass, metal or plastic.  Yard Waste found not meeting collection guidelines will be left at the curb.   Questions? Please Call the Bureau of Environmental Services 412-255-2773/ 412-255-2631 | 26/4/2019 10:07:39 |
| Experts Offer Arbor Day Tips for 17 Year Cicada Emergence | PITTSBURGH, PA (April 26, 2019) The City’s Forestry Division, Tree Pittsburgh, and the Pittsburgh Shade Tree Commission are sharing tips for tree owners in advance of the emergence of the 17-year cicada emergence coming this May in Western Pennsylvania.Adult cicadas will show in tremendous numbers and be active for 4-6 weeks in the Pittsburgh region. Although not invasive insects, cicadas lay eggs in trees by cutting small grooves in tree limbs. The trees will suffer damage but – if healthy – will recover in the next year.While attempts to cover young trees with protective netting may be well intentioned, this can cause more harm than good. Removing the netting will often break off more new growth than the cicada damage, and birds and other animals may become entangled.Adult cicadas have neither mouths nor stingers and are no threat to people.Cicadas do pose a choking hazard to pets and eating too many cicadas may make a pet sick. Keep a close eye on pets during cicada season.Cicadas are high in protein, providing nutrients to thousands of common wildlife animals. Turtles, squirrels, mice, possums, foxes, raccoons, chipmunks, birds and more feast on these insects.Male cicadas use special organs called tymbals to make their courtship calls, heard as amplified buzzing and clicking and filling the air with the sound of spring and summer.More information on today's seedling giveaway in Market Square and the 17-year-cicada may be found on Tree Pittsburgh’s web site at:https://www.treepittsburgh.org/event/arbor-day-seedling-giveaway-2/https://www.treepittsburgh.org/cicadasContacts:City of Pittsburgh Forester Lisa Ceoffelisa.ceoffe@pittsburghpa.gov412 665 3625Tree Pittsburgh Director of Urban Forestry Matt Erbmatt@treepittsburgh.org412 781 TREE (8733) | 26/4/2019 09:43:31 |
| PWSA Adopting Paid Safe Leave and Parental Leave Policies Forwarded by City Government | PITTSBURGH, PA (April 26, 2019) The board of the Pittsburgh Water and Sewer Authority is set to approve two employee-friendly measures already adopted by Mayor William Peduto and Pittsburgh City Council. Today the board will vote on a paid safe leave policy, in which employees victimized by domestic abuse may take days off from work to privately address the matter while not having to fear losing their jobs. Mayor Peduto signed an Executive Order on safe leave for City of Pittsburgh employees last year and urged other public and private sector employers to join him.  “The cost of domestic violence for employers is the loss of productivity. Employees plagued by violence at home are often distracted and sometimes ill at work. This policy will allow employees in these situations to try and take steps to improve the situation without fearing the loss of their job,” a board statement says. The PWSA board is also set to adopt a paid parental leave policy similar to the one City Council approved and the Mayor signed in 2015, in which new mothers and fathers are allowed up to six weeks of paid leave after the birth, adoption or fostering of a child. The policy, says the board resolution, “will help PWSA recruit and retain the best possible workforce and will have a positive effect on employee productivity, employee performance and employee morale.” “We’re grateful to the City of Pittsburgh for leading the way and our Board of Directors for adopting these progressive employment policies. The changes will help protect the well-being of our employees, help retain talent and attract the best and the brightest to join our team,” said PWSA Executive Director Robert A. Weimar. | 26/4/2019 09:14:43 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Saturday and Sunday, April 27-28, 2019 | Saturday, April 27, 2019Homewood Early Learning Block Party - Launch Of City Of Pittsburgh's Dolly Parton Imagination LibraryTime: 12:00 P.M.Location: 7219 Kelly Street, Homewood SouthSunday, April 28, 2019Squirrel Hill Stands Against Gun Violence's "Looking Back, Marching Forward"Time: 1:30 P.M.Location: Temple Sinai, Squirrel Hill North | 27/4/2019 10:17:01 |
| Free Book Program Launches for Pittsburgh Preschoolers | PITTSBURGH, PA (April 27, 2019) A new program offering free monthly books to Pittsburgh children from birth to age 5 is now taking applications from parents and guardians, Mayor William Peduto announced today. The free book program – in conjunction with Dolly Parton’s Imagination Library, the Benter Foundation and the United Way of Southwestern Pennsylvania – will mail all eligible children an age-appropriate book every month until their 5th birthday. Mailings will begin in 8-10 weeks. Those interested may visit this page at the Mayor’s Office website and have a registration form issued via mail. Online registrations will be available soon from the Imagination Library. “Providing greater access to books is a meaningful first step towards ensuring that parents and their children throughout the city have an opportunity to read consistently and reap the many benefits of early literacy,” Mayor Peduto said. Since its inception in 1995 the program from the country music superstar has mailed more than 113 million books, for free, to children in the United States, Canada, Australia and the United Kingdom. The full program provides a 60-volume set of books, beginning with the classic “The Little Engine That Could” by Watty Piper. To be eligible for the program preschoolers must: - Be a resident of the City of Pittsburgh   - Have a parent or guardian fill out an official registration form   - Notify the United Way of Southwestern Pennsylvania of any address changes   Mayor Peduto and his Early Childhood Manager Tiffini Simoneaux announced the beginning of registration today at the Homewood Early Learning Block Party. Legislation was introduced to Pittsburgh City Council in February to accept $250,000 from the Benter Foundation to establish the Pittsburgh program. The United Way is the required 501c3 mailing partner for the initiative. | 26/4/2019 14:34:49 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Monday, April 29, 2019 | Presenting Mayor Sophie Masloff Employee Of The Month AwardTime: 11:00 A.M.Location: Mayor's Conference Room, City-County BuildingRecognizing Workers Memorial DayTime: 12:00 P.M.Location: Market Square, Central Business DistrictSpeaking At Carnegie Mellon University's Manufacturing Futures ForumTime: 4:00 P.M.Location: David A. Tepper School of Business - Carnegie Mellon University, Squirrel Hill NorthSpeaking At Jewish Federation Vigil for PowayTime: 6:00 P.M.Location: Jewish Community Center, Squirrel Hill North  Speaking At Annual Art Rooney Awards DinnerTime: 8:00 P.M.Location: The Westin Hotel, Central Business District | 29/4/2019 07:55:29 |
| Citiparks Launching New Baseball/Softball Season in Partnership with Pirates RBI | PITTSBURGH, PA (April 30, 2019) Citiparks and our Citisports Division is excited to get the 2019 Baseball/Softball Season underway, with our expanded partnership with Pirates RBI (Reviving Baseball in Inner Cities, an MLB initiative). This year, teams will begin vying for the Mayor’s Cup Trophy with a kick-off game on Saturday, May 4, 2019 at Noon, at McGibbney Field in Brookline.This season-opening game will feature the Pony AA Teams from Brookline and the 14th Ward. These two teams faced each other at the end of the 2018 Season in the Mayor’s Cup Championship at PNC Park with the 14th Ward coming out on top. This is going to be a great kick-off game for the 2019 Season!Before the game, Citisports in conjunction with the Pittsburgh Pirates and Major League Baseball will host PITCH, HIT AND RUN—the Official Skills Competition of Major League Baseball.This Local Competition will take place from 10 a.m. to Noon (5/4/19) at McGibbney Field in Brookline Memorial Park (1452 Brookline Blvd., Pittsburgh, PA 15226). Open to Boys and Girls ages 7 to 14. (Age is determined as of July 17, 2019).Pitch, Hit and Run will then continue with the Sectional Competition on Saturday, May 18, 2019—10 a.m. to Noon, again at McGibbney Field.To register for this competition, please contact Citiparks-Citisports Division: ·citisports@pittsburgh.pa412.488.8397Participants in PHR have the opportunity to advance all the way to the National Finals during MLB ALL-STAR WEEK.“We are so excited to expand our partnership with the Pirates RBI," said Citiparks Director Ross Chapman. "It’s sure to be a great day at McGibbney Field and a fantastic season.”Citiparks’ Roving Art Car will also be at the field with baseball crafts for the kids beginning at Noon. | 30/4/2019 11:18:51 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Tuesday, April 30, 2019 | Interview With PBS National CrewTime: 10:00 A.M.Location: Mayor's Conference Room, City-County BuildingMeeting With Dr. Zipora GurTime: 11:00 A.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County BuildingSpeaking At Innovation Interchange Annual LuncheonTime: 12:00 P.M.Location: Wyndham Grand, Central Business DistrictMeeting With Dutch Parliament Foreign Affairs CommitteeTime: 1:30 P.M.Location: Mayor's Conference Room, City-County BuildingPittsburgh Marathon, Then &amp; Now Press Event With Shawn FlaghertyTime: 2:00 P.M.Location: Mayor's Conference Room, City-County BuildingHousing Celebration &amp; Resource Fair With Urban Redevelopment Authority &amp; Housing Opportunity FundTime: 6:00 P.M.Location: City of Pittsburgh's 412 Boulevard of The Allies, Central Business District | 30/4/2019 07:47:34 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Wednesday, May 1, 2019 | PITTSBURGH, PA (May 1, 2019) Mayor William Peduto today travels to New York City for the Mayors Leadership Institute on Smart Cities, hosted by the U.S. Conference of Mayors and New York University’s Wagner School of Public Service. Pittsburgh has long been a leader in the smart city movement, by working with Carnegie Mellon University and other partners on the deployment of and response to new mobility and communications technologies such as autonomous vehicles, electric vehicles and shared mobility. He is attending the institute with other Mayors including: Hardie Davis Jr of Augusta; Joseph P. Ganim of Bridgeport; Acquanetta Warren of Fontana; Debra March of Henderson; Robert Reichert of Macon; Adrian D. Perkins of Shreveport; David Condon of Spokane; and Reed Gusciora of Trenton. Organizers are paying the costs of the Mayor’s travel. No city tax dollars are being spent. He returns to Pittsburgh Friday afternoon. Mayor William Peduto’s Public Schedule – Wednesday, May 1, 2019:Flight to New York City Time: 1 p.m. Smart Cities Welcome Reception and Dinner  Time: 6 p.m. Location: Saxon + Parole, 316 Bowery Street, NYC | 1/5/2019 09:05:40 |
| REMINDER: Portion of Grant Street to Close Until July for Brick Replacement | PITTSBURGH, PA (May 1, 2019) Starting Monday, May 6, the Department of Mobility and Infrastructure will be reconstructing a portion of Grant Street due to the deteriorated condition of the bricks.All bricks within the project limits will be replaced, along with replacement of damaged portions of the concrete subbase. This is the first year of a multi-year investment to repair Grant Street, which is maintained as a brick street due to its prominence and importance in the Central Business District. This is one component of the City’s $20 million street resurfacing budget for 2019, which includes asphalt, concrete, brick and blockstone streets. The asphalt resurfacing program also kicked off in April, and will be going strong through the summer and early fall.When the contractor gets underway to start the brick replacement, the outbound lanes of Grant Street between Seventh and Liberty avenues will be closed for two months, beginning May 6 at 9 a.m., and will reopen on July 3 at 9 p.m.Two-way traffic will be maintained on the inbound lanes of Grant Street. Posted detours will be provided and buses will be rerouted. The work is weather dependent.Those with questions may contact Chief Engineer Eric Setzler at 412-477-6066. | 1/5/2019 14:49:00 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Thursday, May 2, 2019 | PITTSBURGH, PA (May 2, 2019) Mayor William Peduto is in New York City for the Mayors Leadership Institute on Smart Cities, hosted by the U.S. Conference of Mayors and New York University’s Wagner School of Public Service. Pittsburgh has long been a leader in the smart city movement, by working with Carnegie Mellon University and other partners on the deployment of and response to new mobility and communications technologies such as autonomous vehicles, electric vehicles and shared mobility. He is attending the institute with other Mayors including: Hardie Davis Jr of Augusta; Joseph P. Ganim of Bridgeport; Acquanetta Warren of Fontana; Debra March of Henderson; Robert Reichert of Macon; Adrian D. Perkins of Shreveport; David Condon of Spokane; and Reed Gusciora of Trenton. Organizers are paying the costs of the Mayor’s travel. No city tax dollars are being spent. He returns to Pittsburgh Friday afternoon. Mayor William Peduto’s Public Schedule – Thursday, May 2, 2019 (Unless noted, all locations NYU Wagner/Puck Building): Welcome and Initiative Go-Around Time: 8:30 a,m.  Smart Cities: Overview and Current Trends, with experts including Debra Lam, Managing Director, Smart Cities and Inclusive Innovation at Georgia Tech Center and former Pittsburgh Chief of Innovation; and John Tolva, CoFounder, CityFi and former Chicago Chief Technology Officer Time: 9:30 a.m. Building a Smart City Prototype, with Alexander Shermansong, Professor of Public Service, NYU Wagner School of Public Service Time: 11:15 a.m. Mayoral breakout sessions Time: 1 p.m. Smart Cities, Taking on Challenges, with Gordon Campbell, Professor of Public Service NYU Wagner School of Public Service Time: 2:30 p.m. Public-Private Partnerships, with Neil Kleiman, Professor of Urban Planning and Public Service NYU Wagner School of Public Service, and Lani Ingram, VP, Smart Communities, Verizon Time: 3:30 p.m. Smart Cities Institute Reception, with Clay Shirky, New York University, Vice Provost for Educational Technologies Time: 5 p.m. Location: NYU Abu Dhabi House, 19 Washington Square North | 2/5/2019 09:27:48 |
| City Launches Podcast Series on Public Art | PITTSBURGH, PA (May 2, 2019)  The City of Pittsburgh is proud to announce the launch of a new series of podcasts centered around the City’s collection of monuments, memorials, and public art. The series is an effort of the Public Art and Civic Design Division (PA+CD) of the Department of City Planning and is part of their ongoing mission to preserve the City’s art collection, document its history, and provide new and dynamic ways for the public to learn about and experience art in the public realm.This series of sixteen podcasts gives a wealth of historical information, with details on roughly 40% of the City’s collection of over 170 works of art, many dating back to the 19th Century. These backgrounds, spanning works found in every quadrant of the City, are combined with modern takes on how works of art can transform physical space and shape the narrative of a neighborhood.Episodes such as “Lawrenceville: In The Wake Of War,” “Strange History: Monumental Wrecks," and “Contemporary Art: A Change Of Tone” discuss the historical aspects of the City’s collection and explore the careers of its famed artists, including Giuseppe Moretti, Frank Vittor, Josefa Filkosky, and Thaddeus Mosley.In the corresponding series of storytelling episodes, Mr. Mosley joins other notable artists Peter Calaboyias and Susan Wagner to present oral histories of their work and the relationship of public art and placemaking. Supplementing these interviews are thoughts from emerging artists such as Ben Grubb and Genevieve Barbee-Turner. Community leaders, including Ruth McCartan, Jennifer Bechak, and Audrey Iacone, provide additional perspectives on how public art helps to tell the story of a community.“With this project the City confirms its commitment on playing a significant role as a funder to actively insure the importance of monuments, memorials, and public art,” said Mayor William Peduto.Together, the podcast series explores the nature of public art in evolving neighborhoods, the process of artmaking in times of social change, the legacy of permanent monuments, and the unique history of Pittsburgh as a city made of many distinct and interrelating communities. The public is invited to access them at http://pittsburghpa.gov/pa-cd/index.html Written versions of each podcast are available to download for the hearing impaired, and maps show the locations off all referenced artworks. The podcasts represent the next step in the City’s ongoing project of merging the conservation of its public art collection with a technological approach, providing multiple ways for citizens to access and interact with the collection.The project wouldn’t be possible without the technical support of the GIS Division of the Department of City Planning and the Department of Innovation and Performance; as well as Dr. Jennifer Whitmer Taylor, assistant professor of public history at Duquesne University who specializes in contested commemoration; and Lauren Eisenhart-Purvis, archivist at Pittsburgh History and Landmark Foundation and freelance oral historian. Their research, expertise, and assistance in production helped the Division to bring this project to fruition.The City’s entire collection of public art is available to explore using the online GIS map and as a downloadable inventory. A series of plaques is also currently being implemented to give context and history on-site. The GIS map can be seen at http://pittsburghpa.gov/pa-cd/index.html and the inventory is available at http://apps.pittsburghpa.gov/redtail/images/5427_City_Collection_Print_Binder_LG.pdf. These documents are continually being updated as information is collected and refined.For questions about the project contact:Yesica GuerraPublic Art and Civic Design ManagerCity of PittsburghDepartment of City Planning200 Ross St. 4th floor, Pittsburgh, PA 15219[p] 412.255.8996[e] yesica.guerra@pittsburghpa.govMichael HomaGIS Manager City of PittsburghDepartment of City Planning200 Ross St. 4th floor, Pittsburgh, PA 15219[p] 412.393.0157[e] Mike.Homa@pittsburghpa.gov | 2/5/2019 09:42:04 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Friday, May 3, 2019 | PITTSBURGH, PA (May 3, 2019) Mayor William Peduto is in New York City for the Mayors Leadership Institute on Smart Cities, hosted by the U.S. Conference of Mayors and New York University’s Wagner School of Public Service. Pittsburgh has long been a leader in the smart city movement, by working with Carnegie Mellon University and other partners on the deployment of and response to new mobility and communications technologies such as autonomous vehicles, electric vehicles and shared mobility. He is attending the institute with other Mayors including: Hardie Davis Jr of Augusta; Joseph P. Ganim of Bridgeport; Acquanetta Warren of Fontana; Debra March of Henderson; Robert Reichert of Macon; Adrian D. Perkins of Shreveport; David Condon of Spokane; and Reed Gusciora of Trenton. Organizers are paying the costs of the Mayor’s travel. No city tax dollars are being spent. He returns to Pittsburgh late this afternoon. Mayor William Peduto’s Public Schedule – Friday, May 3, 2019 (Unless noted, all locations NYU Wagner/Puck Building):Cameras are the New Streetlights, with Andrew Liu, SVP, Smart Cities, Parsons Time: 8:30 a.m. Drafting Smart City Plans Time: 8:45 a.m. Sharing and Critiquing the Mayors’ Smart City Initiatives Time: 10:30 a.m. Smart City Planning to Spur Citywide Change Time: 2:30 p.m. Facilitated conversation about citywide reforms that will enable even greater smart city efforts, with Neil Kleiman, Professor of Urban Planning and Public Service NYU Wagner School of Public Service Time: 3 p.m. Institute Conclusion, with Gordon Campbell, Professor of Public Service NYU Wagner School of Public Service; Tom Cochran, CEO and Executive Director, U.S. Conference of Mayors; and Sherry Glied, Dean, NYU Wagner School of Public Service Time: 3:30 p.m. Flight to Pittsburgh Time: 4:30 p.m. | 3/5/2019 08:53:42 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Monday, May 6, 2019 | Meeting With Chief Of Staff Daniel GilmanTime: 10:30 A.M.Location: Mayor's Conference Room, City-County BuildingTour of Pittsburgh Infrastructure Needs with U.S. Rep. Peter DeFazio, Chairman of House Transportation and Infrastructure CommitteeTime: 12:30 p.m.Press Conference with Rep. DeFazioTime: 2:30 p.m.Location: PWSA Brilliant Yard, Highland ParkSpeaking On Carnegie Mellon University's Panel On Religious PluralismTime: 6:00 P.M.Location: WQED Studios, Squirrel Hill North | 6/5/2019 09:37:10 |
| Welcoming Interactive and Welcoming Economies Convening in Pittsburgh Next Week | PITTSBURGH, PA (May 6, 2019) The Welcoming Interactive + Welcoming Economies Convening merges cutting edge policies and innovative ideas from the field of immigrant economic development with successful practices and inspiring stories of welcoming communities. This conference next week will host over 400 leaders from across the country and is a time to establish new connections. The host city of Pittsburgh, according to research published by New American Economy, is one of the most welcoming places for immigrants: as of 2016 7.3% of all immigrants in the city of Pittsburgh were entrepreneurs and those entrepreneurs have a combined spending power of $2.4 billion.“Welcoming America looks forward to convening the largest gathering of local leaders around the country focused on creating more inclusive communities for immigrants and all residents. Few cities and regions better embody the values that represent this Welcoming movement than Pittsburgh,which has benefited from the social and economic benefits of its efforts to create a more welcoming environment, while also standing as a beacon in its work to combat hate after the tragic events of 2018,”  said Rachel Peric, Executive Director of Welcoming America. Immigrants make significant contributions to local economies and neighborhoods across the United States, and immigrant-owned businesses employ nearly six million workers nationally. Immigrant-owned businesses also play an outsized role in revitalizing neighborhoods through entrepreneurship, reversing population decline, and homeownership. Immigrant owned businesses help all ships rise in prosperity and the WIE helps to address learning opportunities for immigrants and long term residents alike.Communities that attend the Welcoming Interactive + Welcoming Economies Convening discuss the power of immigrants to energize their neighborhoods, economy, and culture. Learning more about the people that make up our communities helps build a competitive advantage and gain access to opportunities to be recognized and share integration practices on a regional, national, and global stage.The Convening is being held May 15-17 at the Omni William Penn.Contact: Timothy Walden, Welcoming America Communications Manager, 404-736-6608, or Timothy@welcomingamerica.org | 6/5/2019 11:14:58 |
| DOMI Receives Major Grant for Public Engagement on Autonomous Vehicles | PITTSBURGH, PA (May 6, 2019) The Department of Mobility and Infrastructure (DOMI) will increase public engagement and outreach on the testing and deployment of automated vehicles with the assistance of a major new foundation grant. The John S. and James L. Knight Foundation is committing $410,539 to DOMI to help demystify automated vehicles for the public, and provide transparent information to residents about their technology and testing on city streets. “This generous grant will allow the City to offer authentic participation by the public on autonomous vehicle policies, testing and deployment,” DOMI Director Karina Ricks said. The grant – which will be introduced to Pittsburgh City Council tomorrow – follows the public release last month of DOMI’s first first summary of findings on autonomous vehicle testing in the city. It lists data on the kinds of vehicles being tested around Pittsburgh, in what neighborhoods, the safety provisions being used, and job creation by the growing industry. Five entities are currently testing automated vehicles in the city: Aptiv, Argo AI, Aurora Innovation,  Carnegie-Mellon University and Uber.The city is receiving funding as part of its participation in a Knight Foundation program along with the cities of Detroit, San Jose and Miami. The grant is for a three-year period starting in late 2019. | 6/5/2019 10:37:48 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Tuesday, May 7, 2019 | Allegheny County Joint Career and Technology Center Signing DayTime: 9:30 a.m.Location Energy Innovation Center, Bedford DwellingsRemake Learning Days KickoffTime: 11:45 a.m.Location: Carnegie Museum of Art, OaklandIssuing Proclamation for National Alliance of Letter Carriers Food DriveTime: 2 p.m.Location: Mayor's Conference RoomNAACP 65th Annual Human Rights DinnerTime: 5:30 p.m.Location: Westin Pittsburgh, Downtown | 7/5/2019 09:01:34 |
| More Than 50 Affordable Housing Units Coming to East Liberty, Larimer and Garfield | PITTSBURGH, PA (May 7, 2019) East Liberty’s Mellon’s Orchard South development is set for 37 new affordable rental units, while another 17 rehabilitated for-sale units for low-income homebuyers are on the way for other parts of East Liberty, Larimer and Garfield.Both projects will be presented to the board of the Urban Redevelopment Authority of Pittsburgh on Thursday.In the Mellon’s Orchard South development at Station and N. Beatty streets, Trek Development is planning a 47-unit mixed-income multi-family development including 37 affordable units and 10 market rate units. Affordable units are supported with low interest loans from the URA and URA’s Housing Opportunity Fund (HOF). The project was also supported by an allocation of Low Income Housing Tax Credits (LIHTC) by the Pennsylvania Housing Finance Agency (PHFA).Former residents of the Penn Plaza development will be given priority for occupancy at the Mellon’s Orchard South site.The project will include 35 apartment units and 12 townhouses. The apartments include 25 one-bedroom and 10 two-bedroom units in a three-story walk-up building. The apartment building will also include a community room that will be available to all residents of the development. Six units will be accessible to individuals with mobility and sensory impairments and a seventh unit will be accessible to individuals with sensory impairments. Parking will be available for 33 vehicles.Last week the HOF Advisory Board passed a motion to award Mellon’s Orchard Housing LLC a Housing Opportunity Fund Rental Gap Program Loan (HOF RGP) in the amount of $690,000, in conjunction with the Coalition of Organized Residents of East Liberty (COR), a 501c(3) working with the developer.The HOF Funding will support 20 units at or below 50% area median income (AMI) and four units at or below 30% AMI.Of the 37 affordable units, four will be rented to households with incomes at or below 20% AMI, 20 units will be rented to households at or below 50% AMI, and 13 units will be rented to households with incomes at or below 60% AMI.  The Housing Authority of the City of Pittsburgh (HACP) will provide Project Based Vouchers to subsidize eight of the units.The overall development cost is $13.6 million.Nearby in other parts of East Liberty, Larimer and Garfield, East Liberty Development Inc. (ELDI) is planning to construct six new homes and rehabilitate 20 homes. Of the 26 total homes, 17 will be sold to low-income families.ELDI will be working with several small but high-quality contractors from around the area to perform the work.The board is set to approve a $1.5 million construction loan for the project, which has an overall budget of $8 million.  Additionally, second mortgage funding in the amount of $340,000 is being requested to make the units more affordable to the target population.  This project has also received a $7.0 million allocation of New Markets Tax Credits (NMTC) from the Pittsburgh Urban Initiatives (PUI) which is the NMTC affiliate of the URA.The new and rehabilitated homes will be on: N. Euclid Avenue (2 homes); N. St. Clair Street (4 homes); Auburn Street; Chislett Street; Rippey Street; Rural Street (2 homes); N. Fairmont Street (4 homes); Enright Court (8 homes); Mayflower Street; Shetland Street; and N. Aiken Avenue. | 7/5/2019 13:09:34 |
| Media Advisory: Press Conference Thursday on Launch of Financial Empowerment Centers | PITTSBURGH, PA (May 8, 2019) Mayor William Peduto will host a press conference tomorrow afternoon to mark the launch of the city's Financial Empowerment Centers, which provide a free, one-stop shop for city residents seeking financial advice.WHO: Mayor William PedutoJonathan Mintz, President and CEO of Cities for Financial Empowerment FundPresley Gillespie, President of Neighborhood AlliesFEC team members and counselorsWHAT: Press conference announcing launch of Financial Empowerment CentersWHERE:City-County Building Grand Hall, 414 Grant StreetWHEN:2 p.m., Thursday, May 9, 2019 | 8/5/2019 15:27:52 |
| One Block of Fifth Avenue Downtown to Temporarily Close for Water Line Repairs | PITTSBURGH, PA (May 8, 2019) The City of Pittsburgh Department of Mobility and Infrastructure is announcing that the Pittsburgh Water and Sewer Authority will be closing Fifth Avenue, between Smithfield and Wood streets, to make emergency waterline repairs beginning Friday, May 10 and ending Sunday, May 19.To ease rush hour congestion the daily closures will be from 9:00 a.m. to 3:00 p.m., and from 7:00 p.m. to 6:00 a.m.Posted detours will be provided and buses will be rerouted.Those with questions may contact Amanda Purcell, Municipal Traffic Engineer, at 412-255-8846. | 8/5/2019 16:45:01 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Wednesday, May 8, 2019 | Call with Civic EnterprisesTime: 11:30 a.m.Press conference announcing Office of EquityTime: 1 p.m.Location: Mayor's Conference RoomWeekly scheduling meetingTime: 3 p.m.Location: Mayor's OfficeDelivering Proclamation for Asian American Heritage MonthTime: 6 p.m.Location: Squirrel Hill Library, 5801 Forbes Avenue | 8/5/2019 08:59:55 |
| City Wins State Funding for Senior Centers in Brighton Heights, Greenfield and Homewood | PITTSBURGH, PA (May 8, 2019) Governor Tom Wolf and the state Department of Aging has issued grant awards to upgrade three Citiparks Healthy Active Living Centers in Brighton Heights, Greenfield and Homewood. The Senior Community Center grants total more than $200,000. The Brighton Heights Senior Center on McClure Avenue was awarded $100,000 for general reconstruction including electrical, heating, plumbing, reconfiguration, and lighting installation.  The Greenfield Senior Center on Greenfield Avenue was awarded $66,055. Physical enhancements include the replacement of the flooring and the installation of an accordion wall in the large programming space.  Programmatic enhancements will include contracting with English as a Second Language (ESL) teacher and offering one class per week at the center. The Homewood Senior Center on Frankstown Avenue was awarded $38,200 for both physical and programmatic enhancements. They include upgrades to the kiln room, the installation of an air curtain, and the construction of a fence and parking lot. The project includes the purchase of stationary exercise bicycles to be added to the center’s fitness room to promote an active lifestyle and fulfill the requests of the seniors who frequent the center. “Citiparks and the City of Pittsburgh are ecstatic to have received these grant awards made possible by Governor Wolf and the PA Department of Aging for three of our Senior/Healthy Active Living Centers,” said Citiparks Director Ross Chapman. “Additionally, none of this could have been realized without the ongoing support from our friends at the Allegheny County Area Agency on Aging, the support of Mayor Peduto and his administration and a host of City staff, all of whom are committed to improving the health and wellness of our senior members and residents.” | 8/5/2019 10:51:12 |
| UPDATED: Media Advisory: Mayor William Peduto to Announce New Office of Equity | PITTSBURGH, PA (May 8, 2019) Mayor William Peduto will hold a press conference this afternoon to announce the city's new Office of Equity, which will work across City of Pittsburgh government to embed the importance of equity in government work, and address and eradicate inequalities.WHO:Mayor William PedutoDeputy Chief of Staff Majestic LaneWHAT:Press conference on Office of EquityWHERE:Mayor's Conference Room, 5th Floor, City-County BuildingWHEN:12 p.m., Friday, May 10, 2019Note: Open to credentialed media only | 8/5/2019 09:26:24 |
| City of Pittsburgh to Launch Farmers Market Season | PITTSBURGH PA (May 10, 2019) The City of Pittsburgh is kicking off Farmers Market season tomorrow with exciting new support and tools for all regional markets.Tomorrow at 10 a.m. Mayor William Peduto, the Pittsburgh Food Policy Council, Just Harvest and other community leaders will mark the start of farmers market season by highlighting the Pittsburgh Regional Farmers Market Network, a marketing and networking tool that will be free for markets across the region.The event will take place at the Mellon Square Park farmers market, Mellon Square, William Penn Place, in Downtown.Those joining the Pittsburgh Regional Farmers Market Network will be listed on a regional website, will be invited to networking events, receive free promotion and get access to a members-only listserv addressing issues in the farmers market community. A Market Operators Guide will also soon be issued.The Friday morning event marks the launch of the first season following the release of the study Strengthening Pittsburgh’s Farmers Markets , which recommends actions to improve area farmers markets, and is aimed at increasing equitable access to fresh, affordable, and culturally appropriate food, promoting healthy eating choices, while supporting our regional food producers.This year also features a new monthly farmer’s market in Larimer, which will take place on the 4th Sunday of each month in June through November from 3 – 7 p.m. It will be adjacent to the Larimer Community Garden and Urban Farm at Larimer Avenue and Carver Street.The City of Pittsburgh Office of Special Events operates seven weekly markets:- Squirrel Hill, Sundays 9 a.m. – 1 p.m. (opens May 12)- East Liberty, Mondays 3 – 7 p.m. (opens May 13)- South Side, Tuesdays 3 – 7 p.m. (opens May 14)- Carrick, Wednesdays 3 – 7 p.m. (opens June 19)- Beechview, Thursdays 3 – 7 p.m. (opens June 20)- Downtown, Mellon Square, Fridays 10:30 a.m. – 1:30 p.m. (opens May 10)- North Side, Fridays, 3 – 7 p.m. (opens May 17)City farmers markets this year boast year-round market staff, an extended market season, entertainment/giveaways and the development of the Market Operator’s Guide.The additional launch of the Pittsburgh Regional Farmers Market Network is a step towards facilitating collaboration among all markets in and around Pittsburgh, not just those operated by the City of Pittsburgh.Contact:Shelly Danko+DayOpen Space Specialist and Urban Agriculture and Food Policy Adviser, 412.255.2287 or shelly.dankoday@pittsburghpa.gov | 9/5/2019 10:45:11 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Thursday, May 9, 2019 | North Side Chamber Of Commerce Business Awards LuncheonTime: 12:30 P.M.Location: PNC Park, North ShoreFinancial Empowerment Centers Press EventTime: 2:00 P.M.Location: Grand Hall, City-County BuildingMeeting With Chief Of Staff Daniel Gilman, Deputy Chief Of Staff Majestic Lane, &amp; Chief Sustainability Officer Grant ErvinTime: 3:30 P.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County BuildingOakland Business Improvement District's Drink For Pink EventTime: 5:00 P.M.Location: Hilton Garden Inn, Central Oakland | 9/5/2019 09:21:24 |
| Mayor William Peduto Creates City’s First Office of Equity | PITTSBURGH, PA (May 10, 2019) Mayor William Peduto today signed an Executive Order creating the City’s Office of Equity, which will work across City of Pittsburgh government to embed the importance of equity in government work, and address and eradicate inequalities in all its forms. The Office of Equity will build upon the work of former Chief Urban Affairs Officer Valerie McDonald-Roberts accomplished at the Bureau of Neighborhood Empowerment, and will be led by Chief Equity Officer Majestic Lane. The Office of Equity will follow on Mayor Peduto’s directive that if opportunities in Pittsburgh are not for all, they’re for none. Other cities in Pittsburgh’s peer network that have equity offices include Seattle, Minneapolis, Boston, and Albuquerque. “Based upon the research from the Equity Indicators Report, OnePGH and the concerns I hear from constituents daily, we know we have more work to do on equity but I am proud of what this administration has been able to do thus far,” Mayor Peduto said. “The Office of Equity will build upon this foundation, and seek to bring further opportunities to all Pittsburghers.” The Office of Equity replaces the Bureau of Neighborhood Empowerment within the Mayor’s Office. Since its creation in 2014 the Bureau celebrated accomplishments including: - The $2 million Childhood Equity Fund   - Implementation of the Gender Equity Commission   - Offering more than 2,000 city and county youth summer jobs through the Learn and Earn program   - Expanding the use of Nalaxone to stop fatal overdoses from opioids   - Hiring a full-time staffer to coordinate My Brother’s Keeper initiatives for African-American men and youth    - Implementing the Welcoming Pittsburgh initiative   - Working with Allegheny County to ensure a full 2020 U.S. Census count   - Introducing Financial Empowerment Centers, providing free one-on-one financial advice citywide   - A 100% score in the Human Right’s Commission’s Municipal Equality Index Scorecard   The next steps for the Office of Equity will including joining the Government Alliance on Race and Equity (GARE), and reorganizing contracting oversight by the Equal Opportunity Review Commission. "Local government has the opportunity and capacity to address issues of equity and close disparities. I look forward to continuing to work with internal and external stakeholders to make Pittsburgh a more welcoming and equitable city for all," Lane said. A copy of the Mayor’s Executive Order is available here. ### | 10/5/2019 12:30:13 |
| UPDATED: Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Friday, May 10, 2019 | Celebrating Opening Day Of The City Of Pittsburgh's Farmers Market SeasonTime: 10:00 A.M.Location: Mellon Square, Central Business DistrictInterview With City Hub's John TierneyTime: 11:00 A.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County BuildingCity Of Pittsburgh's Office Of Equity Press ConferenceTime: 12:00 P.M.Location: Mayor's Conference Room, City-County BuildingMeeting With Pittsburgh Federation Of Teachers President Nina Esposito-VisgitisTime: 3:00 P.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County BuildingPennsylvania African-American Network ConventionTime: 6:00 P.M.Location: Marriott City Center, Central Business District | 10/5/2019 09:01:29 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Monday, May 13, 2019 | Meeting With Chief of Staff Daniel Gilman, Chief of Police Scott Schubert, Bob McGann, &amp; Bob CranmerTime: 10:30 A.M.Location: Mayor's Conference Room, City-County BuildingPresenting Ladies Who Network ProclamationTime: 11:00 A.M.Location: Mayor's Conference Room, City-County BuildingMeeting With Chief of Staff Daniel Gilman, Deputy Chief Of Staff Majestic Lane, City Solicitor Yvonne Hilton, &amp; Assistant Director Of Public Works Chris HornsteinTime: 12:00 P.M.Location: Mayor's Conference Room, City-County BuildingMeeting With Senator Jay Costa, Senator Wayne Fontana, Allegheny County Executive Rich Fitzgerald, &amp; Sports &amp; Exhibition Authority Executive Director Mary ConturoTime: 2:00 P.M.Location: Mayor's Conference Room, City-County BuildingWelcoming Home Nobel Laureate Dr. Frances Arnold With Special ProclamationTime: 7:00 P.M.Location: Carnegie Music Hall, North Oakland | 13/5/2019 08:51:10 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Tuesday, May 14, 2019 | Meeting With Chase PattersonTime: 10:30 A.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County BuildingPittsburgh Bureau Of Emergency Medical Services Award Ceremony For Tree Of Life ResponseTime: 12:00 P.M.Location: Bureau of Emergency Medical Services Training Division, Strip DistrictPress Conference Announcing Equity Legislation With The Pittsburgh Black Elected Officials CoalitionTime: 1:00 P.M.Location: Fifth Floor LobbyPresenting Proclamation For Apraxia Awareness DayTime: 2:00 P.M.Location: Mayor's Conference Room, City-County Building | 14/5/2019 09:19:26 |
| CitiParks' 33rd Annual Senior Volunteer Gala | PITTSBURGH, PA (May 15, 2019) On Friday, May 17, 2019, Citiparks will honor their Senior Volunteers at the 33rd Annual Healthy Active Living Volunteer Gala, which will be held at the Sheraton Hotel at Station Square. Each year Senior Volunteers make significant contributions to provide healthy, active and independent living in their neighborhoods.  These volunteer contributions come from senior residents throughout the City, yielding over 100,000 hours of volunteer service.  Said Citiparks Director Chapman, “Citiparks could not do it without these invaluable participants!” With a thank you from Mayor Peduto, Friday, May 17, 2019, will be declared “ Annual Senior Volunteer Recognition Day” here in our most livable City of Pittsburgh. Citiparks Community Services operates 13 Healthy Active Living Centers (Senior Community Centers) open year round, Mondays through Fridays, 8 a.m. to 4 p.m.  Each center focuses on improving the lives of older Pittsburghers—physically, intellectually, socially, culturally, and financially. | 15/5/2019 11:50:31 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Wednesday, May 15, 2019 | Welcoming Atlanta ARC LINK Delegation To PittsburghTime: 12:30 P.M.Location: Carnegie Science Center, ChateauWeekly Meeting With Director Of Public Safety Wendell Hissrich &amp; Chief Of Police Scott SchubertTime: 2:00 P.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County Building | 15/5/2019 09:04:21 |
| Grand Opening of Paulson Spray Park &amp; Playground | Pittsburgh, PA (May 15, 2019) The City of Pittsburgh Department of Parks and Recreation CitiParks, in conjunction with the Departments of Public Works and City Planning, is excited to announce the Grand Opening of our 8th Spray Park at Paulson Playground (1300 Paulson Avenue, 15206).  The Grand Opening will take place on Saturday, May 18, 2019 with the festivities beginning at Noon.Join us for the day and let your imagination run wild in this three dimensional world of water.  It’s guaranteed to bring back memories of running through sprinklers…but with a lot more fun, color and movement. In addition to the Grand Opening of the Spray Park, Saturday, May 18, 2019 will also mark the official Grand Opening of the new Paulson Playground and it will give visitors the chance to enjoy the new art pieces and the hand painted mural on the Spray Park play area. Join City Officials and Community Leaders to celebrate this new edition! Paulson Spray Park Hours of Operation:Weekends (Saturday and Sunday) beginning Memorial Day weekend from 10 a.m. to 8 p.m. (One exception: Saturday, June 1st all Spray Parks will be closed for Summer Staff Orientation)Daily beginning June 12, 2019—10 a.m. to 8 p.m. | 15/5/2019 09:56:53 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Thursday, May 16, 2019 | PITTSBURGH, PA (May 16, 2019) Mayor William Peduto is in Denver today for the National League of Cities Capstone Leaders Forum on Uplifting Legacy Cities. The Mayor will address city, corporate and philanthropic leaders from around the nation today on equitable economic development strategies in Pittsburgh. The NLC describes the leaders forum this way: “ Cities in America with historically strong manufacturing cores have endured wrenching economic transitions over the past several decades. These so-called “Legacy Cities’ are predominantly located in the Northeast and Midwest. They include very large cities like Pittsburgh and Detroit, and smaller communities like Utica, New York, and Gary, Indiana. Many of these cities have struggled to grow jobs in new sectors and to boost employment and income, particularly for their communities of color. Over the two-day convening, we will look at the various responses to the unique needs of these cities and at the role public and private industries can play in their revival.” Gary Mayor Karen Freeman-Wilson is the president of the NLC. The NLC is covering the costs of Mayor Peduto’s travel to Denver. No city taxpayer dollars are being spent. He returns to Pittsburgh late Friday. Mayor William Peduto’s Public Schedule – Thursday, May 16, 2019:( All locations Oxford Hotel, Denver, unless noted) Opening remarks by Mayor Karen Freeman-WilsonTime: 8:30 a.m. NLC and Lincol Institute of Land Policy: Legacy Cities Cohort, with Plot Strategies founder Jess Zimbabwe; Lansing Mayor Andy Schor; Lansing Economic Development Director Brian McGrain; and Rochester Business and Housing Development Director Dana Miller.Time: 8:45 a.m. Panel on Entrepreneurship and the Modern Economy, with NLC Local Democracy Initiative Manager Alex Jones; NLC Director of Innovation Ecosystems Scott Andes; Hartford Development Services Director Erik Johnson; and Waco Councilmember John KinnairdTime: 10:30 a.m. Equitable Economic Development: Pittsburgh Case Study, with Mayor Peduto and NLC Director of Innovation Ecosytems Director Scott AndesTime: 1 p.m. | 16/5/2019 09:31:49 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Friday, May 17, 2019 | PITTSBURGH, PA (May 17, 2019) Mayor William Peduto is in Denver today for the National League of Cities Capstone Leaders Forum on Uplifting Legacy Cities.Yesterday the Mayor addressed city, corporate and philanthropic leaders from around the nation on Equitable Economic Development in Pittsburgh.The NLC describes the leaders forum this way:“ Cities in America with historically strong manufacturing cores have endured wrenching economic transitions over the past several decades. These so-called “Legacy Cities’ are predominantly located in the Northeast and Midwest. They include very large cities like Pittsburgh and Detroit, and smaller communities like Utica, New York, and Gary, Indiana. Many of these cities have struggled to grow jobs in new sectors and to boost employment and income, particularly for their communities of color. Over the two-day convening, we will look at the various responses to the unique needs of these cities and at the role public and private industries can play in their revival.”Gary Mayor Karen Freeman-Wilson is the president of the NLC.The NLC is covering the costs of Mayor Peduto’s travel to Denver. No city taxpayer dollars are being spent. He returns to Pittsburgh tonight.Mayor William Peduto’s Public Schedule – Friday, May 17, 2019:(All locations Oxford Hotel, Denver)Panel on Community Engagement, with Polco founder Nick Mastronardi; Columbus Council President Shannon Hardin; and Kresge Foundation Vice President Ari SimonsTime: 8:30 a.m.Panel on the Role of the Private Sector, with Cleveland Councilman Matt Zone; CGI Communications executive Amy Velez; LinkedIn policy analyst Aaron Moore; and NLC Strategic Partnerships Director David MaloneyTime: 10:15 a.m.Flight to PittsburghTime: 5:30 p.m. | 17/5/2019 10:44:16 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Saturday, May 18, 2019 | Saturday, May 18, 2019Paulson Spray Park Grand OpeningTime: 12:00 P.M.Location: Paulson Spray Park &amp; Playground, Lincoln-Lemington-BelmarSunday, May 19, 2019No public events scheduled. | 18/5/2019 11:00:07 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Monday, May 20, 2019 | Speaking At The American College Of Preventive Medicine's Annual GatheringTime: 1:00 P.M.Location: Omni William Penn Hotel, Central Business DistrictMeeting With Duquesne Light Company Chief Executive Officer Steven MalnightTime: 2:30 P.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County Building Meeting With 2019 Office Of The Mayor Summer InternsTime: 4:00 P.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County Building Speaking At The American Society Of Civil Engineers' Environmental &amp; Water Resources Institute's Screening Of "Paris To Pittsburgh"Time: 5:45 P.M.Location: Wyndham Grand, Central Business District | 20/5/2019 10:45:20 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Monday, May 20, 2019 |  | 20/5/2019 10:34:18 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Tuesday, May 21, 2019 | Tour Of Argo AI FacilitiesTime: 10:30 A.M.Location: Argo AI Offices, The Strip DistrictInterview With WESA's Kevin GavinTime: 1:30 P.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County BuildingMeeting With Representative Michael PuskaricTime: 2:30 P.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County BuildingDelivering Proclamation To Pino's In Honor Of 25th AnniversaryTime: 4:00 P.M.Location: Pino's, Point BreezeWQED 65th Anniversary CelebrationTime: 6:00 P.M.Location: Fred Rogers Studio - WQED-TV, Squirrel Hill North | 21/5/2019 08:29:59 |
| City Offices and Citiparks Facilities Closed, Refuse Collection Postponed For Memorial Day | PITTSBURGH, PA (May 21, 2019) City of Pittsburgh offices and Healthy Active Living Centers will be closed on Monday, May 27, 2018 in observance of Memorial Day.    The Department of Public Works advises that refuse, bulk waste or recycling collection on Monday, May 27, 2018 will be delayed one day.  If your scheduled day of collection is Monday, May 27, you will be serviced on Tuesday, May 28.  If your collection day is Tuesday, May 28, you will be serviced on Wednesday, May 29 and so on through Saturday, June 1.   CitiParks will have the following adjusted schedules in observance of Memorial Day:  HEALTHY ACTIVE LIVING CENTERS (Senior Centers)- All Healthy Active Living Centers will be closed Memorial Day    - Note:  These centers are not open on Saturdays and Sundays    RECREATION CENTERS- All Recreation Centers will be closed:         - Saturday, May 25      - Sunday, May 26       - Monday, May 27       OLIVER BATH HOUSE- Saturday, May 25, 2019: Closed from 12:00 p.m. to 6:00 p.m.   - Sunday, May 26, 2019: Open Normal Operation Hours   - Monday, May 27, 2019: CLOSED    AQUATICS/SWIMMING- Spray Parks Open Saturday, May 25, 2019 at NOON    - All Spray Parks will be open Noon – 6 pm    - Saturday, May 25    -  Sunday, May 26    - Monday, May 27    - Outdoor Pools will open on Monday, June 12, 2019    MELLON TENNIS BUBBLE- Closed Memorial Day   FOOD SERVICE PROGRAMS- The After School Feeding Program will end on Friday, May 24, 2019   - The Summer Food Service Program will begin on Monday, June 17, 2019 | 21/5/2019 11:12:13 |
| City Receives State Grant Supporting Safe Transportation Options for City Schoolchildren | PITTSBURGH, PA (May 22, 2019) Officials from Mayor William Peduto’s administration today will discuss a state grant of more than $450,000 to support safe routes to school for elementary and middle school students in Pittsburgh. A bill is set to be discussed at Pittsburgh City Council’s standing committees meeting accepting $464,000 from the Pennsylvania Department of Transportation’s Transportation Set Aside Program, which provides assistance to municipalities to support the creation of safe and appealing alternatives to single occupant vehicle travel. More than 30 million Americans nationwide transport their children to and from schools every day, which research shows increases hazardous road conditions and harms the environment. The Safe Routes to School program seeks to address that by supporting walking and biking to school, leading to eased traffic conditions and better health for schoolchildren. “The ability to walk or bike to school has long been one of the classic characteristics of Pittsburgh, but over recent decades it has become increasingly hazardous for children, who are our most valuable and vulnerable travelers,” said Department of Mobility and Infrastructure Director Karina Ricks. “This grant will allow us to dedicate resources to help us collaborate with school leaders and parents to identify areas where low-cost improvements can be rapidly implemented.” DOMI is proposing using the PennDOT grant to hire a Safe Routes to School coordinator who is part educator, part engineer and will work on programming for students to walk and bike more easily. The coordinator will work on traffic calming and other safety improvements on streets near schools best suited for walking and biking. Once approved, DOMI plans to have a person in the position by the beginning of the 2019-2020 school year. | 22/5/2019 09:21:12 |
| New Art Intersection Debuts in Shadyside | PITTSBURGH, PA (May 22, 2019) The City of Pittsburgh is pleased to present a new artist-designed intersection project, created in partnership between the Office of Pittsburgh City Councilperson Erika Strassburger and the Public Art and Civic Design Division (PA+CD) of the Department of City Planning (DCP). The project is located within the intersection of Ellsworth Avenue and Maryland Avenue in Shadyside.The project was born out of discussions for traffic improvements for this area of the city. Councilperson Strassburger and the DCP became interested in cultural placemaking in commemoration of the 50th anniversary of the Stonewall Uprising, a landmark event in the history of the LGBQTIA+ community’s ongoing struggle for equal rights. Funding for the project came from the City of Pittsburgh through Councilperson Strassburger’s office.Project planning included staff from different City Departments, representatives of the LGBTQIA+ community, and Ellsworth business owners to discuss ideas for interventions in this area that celebrate Pittsburgh’s LGBTQIA+ community and create a new landmark for Shadyside and the entire city in commemoration of the 50th anniversary of the Stonewall Uprising. Consideration was also given to the design aesthetics for the artwork and the importance of safety in the intersection.  “This artist-designed intersection project will enliven the Ellsworth Avenue business district, celebrate Pittsburgh’s LGBTQIA+ community, and honor the 50th anniversary of the Stonewall Uprising,” said Councilperson Strassburger. “Leonardo Moleiro’s mural and use of his signature ‘Totems’ helps to promote inclusion and quite literally, intersectionality, between a group whose struggle continues fifty years after the landmark event. This project will help to remind us that we cannot stop until all groups can live in peace and harmony.”On March 4th, 2019, PA+CD in collaboration with the City’s Office of Management and Budget (OMB) released a Request for Proposals to solicit artists, artist collectives, and designers to propose concepts for this new public art intervention. A City committee evaluated the projects under a scoring system that took into consideration the project description and contextual presence; how the project promotes inclusiveness and uses art and/or design to visually impact the viewer’s experience; and the applicant’s qualifications, experience, and references.Ultimately, the award was granted to Leonardo Moleiro, an internationally renowned artist based in Pasadena, Calif. Mr. Moleiro describes himself as a graphic cubist. His work combines graphic forms and color palettes to create spatially balanced compositions. For this project, Mr. Moleiro proposed TOTEM, a concept based on a magic element, where complementary colors and shapes integrate with the rainbow pride flag and join each other in a positive balance, thus creating a union representing the celebration of differences in a harmonious way.Moleiro's team for artistic technical support was Dario Posada and Ernesto Sanchez Luckert.In this project, as with its other art and design projects, the City of Pittsburgh’s departments are working together with the hope of not only nurturing the talent of artists and designers, but also adding to the aesthetics and feel of city neighborhoods and striving for inclusion in the process.Photo credit: SCFor questions about the art or artist, please contact:                    For questions about the initiative, please contact:Yesica Guerra                                                                                Hersh MerensteinPublic Art and Civic Design Manager                                            Communications and Outreach Manager City of Pittsburgh                                                                           Office of Councilperson Erika Strassburger200 Ross Street, 4th Floor                                                              414 Grant Street, 510 City-County BuildingPittsburgh, PA 15219                                                                     Pittsburgh, PA 15219[p]: 412-255-8996                                                                           [p]: 412-255-2133[e]: yesica.guerra@pittsburghpa.gov                                              [e]: hersh.merenstein@pittsburghpa.gov | 22/5/2019 09:32:34 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Wednesday, May 22, 2019 | Meeting With Donna WilliamsTime: 11:00 A.M.Location: Mayor's Conference Room, City-County BuildingInterview With NRK Norwegian Broadcasting TeamTime: 1:15 P.M.Location: Mayor's Conference Room, City-County BuildingWeekly Meeting With Director Of Public Safety Wendell Hissrich &amp; Chief Of Police Scott SchubertTime: 2:00 P.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County BuildingWeinberg Terrace To Meet With ResidentsTime: 3:30 P.M.Location: Weinberg Terrace, Squirrel Hill SouthCeaseFirePA's "Guns Down" Town Hall With Igor VolskyTime: 6:00 P.M. | 22/5/2019 08:37:47 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Thursday, May 23, 2019 | NAMI CEO Pledge Signing With Department Of Human Resources &amp; Civil ServiceTime: 2:30 P.M.Location: Mayor's Conference Room, City-County BuildingMeeting With State Representative Michael PuskaricTime: 3:00 P.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County BuildingWeekly Scheduling MeetingTime: 3:30 P.M.Location: Mayor's Conference Room, City-County BuildingPittsburgh 2030 District Progress ReportTime: 5:00 P.M.Location: Riverfront West at 3 Crossings, The Strip DistrictIftar Dinner With Turkish Cultural Center &amp; The Peace Islands InstituteTime: 8:00 P.M.Location: Peace Islands Institute, Shadyside | 23/5/2019 08:31:23 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Friday, May 24, 2019 | No public events scheduled. | 24/5/2019 09:34:14 |
| Broadway Avenue Concrete Repair Begins Next Week in Beechview | PITTSBURGH, PA (May 24, 2019) The City of Pittsburgh’s Department of Mobility and Infrastructure is announcing the beginning of concrete slab and joint repair along Broadway Avenue in Beechview. The work precedes planned implementation of the Broadway Avenue Public Realm streetscape and safety improvements. Cilenti Construction Company will complete concrete slab and curb replacement along the 1700 block of Broadway Avenue (approximately from Coast Avenue to Rutherford Avenue).  This work is scheduled to start May 29, and is estimated to last four to five weeks, weather permitting. Hours of operation will be Monday through Friday, 7:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. Restrictions will occur in both directions in all lanes, but construction will be limited to only one lane at a time so that through traffic in both directions will be maintained. No parking signs will be posted 24 hours in advance and any vehicles parked in the work zone will be towed. Minor work to prepare for the project may occur in advance of the May 29, start date. The Department’s personnel is working closely with the Port Authority of Allegheny County to minimize impacts to the Port Authority’s Light Rail “T” line.Streetscape improvements designed through a 2017 community process will commence immediately following the concrete repair. Pavement markings will be completed by the Parking Lot Painting Company. Streetscape improvements include new lane and parking markings and street reconfiguration to expand pedestrian space and safe transit access by closing the existing slip lanes at the low-platform T stations to vehicular use. Future year anticipated work to improve the corridor includes design and construction of enhanced plaza space and reconstruction of transit platforms.Those with questions regarding the project may contact the Project Manager at DOMI.Broadway@pittsburghpa.gov | 24/5/2019 13:26:34 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Tuesday, May 28, 2019 | PITTSBURGH, PA (May 28, 2019) Mayor William Peduto is Toronto today for the Governing Cities in the 21st Century symposium, hosted by the University of Toronto’s School of Cities, where he will be a featured speaker. The hosts describe the symposium this way:What should governance look like in the 21st century? Can we leverage national, provincial and municipal relationships to advance urban governance? How do we scale up local responses to reach collective goals?At the School of Cities spring symposium, Governing Cities in the 21st Century, these crucial questions will be discussed with experts, including a lightning talk by Nasma Ahmed, Director, Digital Justice Lab; a keynote by Michelynn Laflèche, Vice President, United Way Greater Toronto; and a fireside chat with Bill Peduto, Mayor of Pittsburgh and Richard Florida, University Professor, School of Cities and Rotman School of Management.The symposium will be live-streamed here. Mayor Peduto will speak on the symposium’s final panel, “Governing an Inclusive City.” Organizers are covering all his costs. No city tax dollars are being spent. He returns to Pittsburgh this evening. Mayor William Peduto’s Public Schedule – Tuesday, May 28, 2019: All locations Toronto Reference Library, 789 Yonge Street, Toronto Welcome &amp; School of Cities Highlights, with Matti Siemiatycki, Associate Professor and Interim Director, School of CitiesTime: 9 a.m. All Roads Lead to Opportunity — Building Great Cities that are Great for Everyone, with  Michelynn Laflèche, Vice President, Strategy, Research &amp; Policy, United Way Greater TorontoTime: 9:15 a.m. Contemporary Governance: Creativity, Perseverance and Possibilities, with Sarah Sharma, Associate Professor and Director of the McLuhan Centre for Culture and Technology, University of Toronto; Nasma Ahmed, Director, Digital Justice Lab; Greg Cook, Outreach Team, Sanctuary Ministries; and Juan Carlos Rodriguez-Camacho, Administrative Coordinator of Research, Waakebiness-Bryce Institute for Indigenous Health, Dalla Lana School of Public Health, University of TorontoTime: 9:45 a.m. Navigating the 21st Century City, with Marieme Lo, Associate Professor and Associate Director, Education, School of Cities; Andrea Barrack, Global Head, Sustainability &amp; Corporate Citizenship, TD Bank Group; Crystal Basi, Director of Research and Community Engagement, Toronto Aboriginal Support Services Council; Sara Hughes, Assistant Professor, Department of Political Science, University of Toronto; and Jason Thorne, General Manager of Planning and Economic Development, City of HamiltonTime: 11 a.m. Governing an Inclusive City. Mayor Peduto, in conversation with Professor Richard Florida, will draw on his experience to share insights on governing the City of Pittsburgh. This exchange will touch on a range of topics, including: city-university partnerships, addressing inequality at the urban scale – particularly as it connects to pressure associated with tech sector growth – federal-municipal partnerships and innovative policy directions.Time: 12:45 p.m. Closing Remarks with Jacqui Lavalley, Shawanaga First NationTime: 1:35 p.m. Flight to PittsburghTime: 5 p.m. | 28/5/2019 09:05:58 |
| New Downtown Public Art Project an Interactive Tribute to Influential Pittsburghers | PITTSBURGH, PA (May 28, 2019) The City of Pittsburgh is pleased to announce the installation of We Are Pittsburgh, a large-scale public art installation at the corner of Stanwix Street and Fort Duquesne Boulevard.We Are Pittsburgh transforms the facade of 625 Stanwix Street into a visual tribute to influential people who had their beginnings in the Pittsburgh area. The art installation takes place on a mixed-use building; comprised of 20 artistic banners covering the window bays of nine stories of the north and east elevations of the parking garage portion of the building. The composition depicts noteworthy individuals such as Queen Aliquippa, Art Blakey, Andrew Carnegie, Rachel Carson, Roberto Clemente, Thaddeus Mosley, Asa Philip Randolph, Dakota Staton, Gertrude Stein, Andy Warhol, Mary Lou Williams and August Wilson.From steel industrialists to activists, poets, and singers, this installation celebrates those who, through their significant contributions and accomplishments, both in and beyond the city, have helped make Pittsburgh great. The artwork is created using pixilation, triangulation, bursts of color, and abstraction, generating an optical illusion that changes the artwork depending on the distance and viewpoint. The composition emerges in greater clarity when seen through a camera or phone screen, encouraging interactivity through technology.This revolving project marks the first collaboration between the City’s Public Art &amp; Civic Design Division (PA+CD) of the Department of City Planning and private developers. PA+CD worked with Joco LLP and Urban Growth Properties in the coordination and planning of this large public art installation in Pittsburgh. With the banners rising 80 feet high, and fronting the Allegheny River directly across from PNC Park, this dynamic and colorful intervention will be easily seen from downtown streets, from on the river, or from either shore.The designers of We Are Pittsburgh, Joshua Chang and Aaron Ramon, responded to a Request For Proposals put out by PA+CD in conjunction with the Office of Management and Budget. An advisory committee comprised of representatives from the City, project partners, Downtown business owners and stakeholders reviewed proposals. Proposals were scored on specific criteria, including the overall concept with regard to creativity, innovation, and aesthetics; thematic significance; relation to the urban context and visual impact on viewer’s experience of the natural and build environment; and the artist’s previous work and experience. Conceptual and design considerations stipulated that the artwork could be abstract or representational, the composition could be considered as individual panels or as a combined canvas, and the two sides of the building could be designed separately or as a continuum. The advisory committee recommended semi-finalists, with a City Committee selecting the final awardee, We Are Pittsburgh. The project was presented and approved at an Art Commission public hearing and a Planning Commission briefing and public hearing.Ramon and Chang state that the key concepts of We Are Pittsburgh are “History, Togetherness, Pride, and Color.” Large plains of color and shape are seen up close, with the faces gradually becoming more discernible when viewed from a distance, creating a sense of discovery. The figures are backed by templates of historical maps combined with the bright tones of the current transit system. The overall composition celebrates Pittsburgh as a city whose identity and history was forged by the people who have called this place home. The positioning of the figures on the artwork creates a correlation between the individuals and the landscape, with Rachel Carson, Andy Warhol, and Roberto Clemente facing their respectively named bridges, and August Wilson looking towards the August Wilson Center.  The project represents a critical endeavor to harness the power of art in the public realm and in the everyday visual and spatial experience of the public, as well as a tool to enhance the aesthetics of the public environment. In an era where funding for public art is limited, a partnership with a private entity – with clear City leadership throughout the process – becomes an important addition and a precedent to create opportunities for public art in the City of Pittsburgh. Projects of this scale and nature inspire excellence in design and showcase innovative artistic implementations, while paying homage to Pittsburgh’s legacy.# WeArePittsburgh #WeArePGHPhoto credit: SteelCityPhotoFor questions about the project contact:Yesica Guerra                                                                                       Public Art and Civic Design ManagerCity of PittsburghDepartment of City Planning200 Ross St. 4th floor, Pittsburgh, PA 15219[p] 412.255.8996[e] yesica.guerra@pittsburghpa.gov | 28/5/2019 09:50:04 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Wednesday, May 29, 2019 | Meeting With Bloomberg American Cities Climate Challenge TeamTime: 12:00 P.M.Location: Mayor's Conference Room, City-County BuildingMeeting With Allegheny County Executive Rich FitzgeraldTime: 2:00 P.M.Location: Mayor's Conference Room, City-County BuildingMeeting With Michelle Zuckerman-ParkerTime: 3:30 P.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County BuildingMeeting With Deputy Chief Of Staff &amp; Chief Equity Officer Majestic Lane &amp; The Urban Redevelopment Authority's Diamonte WalkerTime: 4:00 P.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County BuildingManchester Neighborhood Plan Final Community MeetingTime: 6:00 P.M.Location: MCC Center, 1319 Allegheny Avenue, Manchester | 29/5/2019 08:46:24 |
| Media Advisory: Mayor William Peduto and URA Officials to Celebrate Down Payment and Closing Cost Assistance Program | For Planning Purposes OnlyPITTSBURGH, PA (May 30, 2019) On Friday morning Mayor William Peduto will join Urban Redevelopment Authority of Pittsburgh officials and a new homeowner in Brighton Heights who purchased her home with help from the Housing Opportunity Fund's Down Payment and Closing Cost Assistance Program.WHO: Mayor William PedutoURA Board Member Lindsay PowellHousing Opportunity Fund Director Jessica Smith PerryHomeowner Natalie PerkoWHERE: 3224 Richardson Street, Brighton HeightsWHEN:10:30 a.m., Friday, May 31, 2019 | 30/5/2019 12:56:21 |
| City of Pittsburgh to Host Virtual Discussion on Digital Equity with Chattanooga Mayor Andy Berke | PITTSBURGH, PA (May 30, 2019) As part of the City’s continued commitment to inclusive innovation, Mayor William Peduto and the Department of Innovation &amp; Performance will host City of Chattanooga Mayor Andy Berke for a virtual mayoral forum focused on the topic of Digital Equity. This event is free and open to the public and will take place on June 6th, 2019 at 6:00 p.m. at Point Park University’s Center for Media Innovation downtown. Point Park University was previously the host of 2019’s Inclusive Innovation Summit.Questions for both Mayors will be accepted both on the Inclusive Innovation Meetup page as well as though Twitter (mention @ PGHIP, with the hashtag #MayorToMayor). In addition to taking questions from the public, this event will also highlight initiatives in both Pittsburgh and Chattanooga that are focused on closing the digital divide. This event will be recorded.Those who are interested in attending can RSVP using the Inclusive Innovation Meetup Page. Refreshments will be available, and both childcare and American Sign Language services can be provided upon request. For requests and additional questions, please contact Itha Cao at itha.cao@pittsburghpa.gov. | 30/5/2019 11:13:48 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Thursday, May 30, 2019 | Bakery Office Three Topping Off CeremonyTime: 11:00 A.M.Location: 6480 Living Place, ShadysideSpeaking At Morningside Crossing Senior Living Grand OpeningTime: 1:30 P.M.Location: 1808 Jancey Street, Morningside SchoolCharlotte Alliance Inter City Visit Panel CallTime: 3:00 P.M.Location: Mayor's Conference Room, City-County BuildingPresenting Mayor Sophie Masloff Employee Of The Month Award To Pittsburgh Bureau Of Police Zone 4 Officer David ShifrenTime: 3:30 P.M.Location: Mayor's Conference Room, City-County BuildingWeekly Scheduling MeetingTime: 4:00 P.M.Location: Mayor's Conference Room, City-County BuildingJewish Federation Celebration! Donor Appreciation EventTime: 7:00 P.M.Location: The Pennsylvanian, Central Business District | 30/5/2019 09:12:33 |
| Housing Opportunity Fund's Down Payment &amp; Closing Cost Assistance Program | PITTSBURGH, PA (May 31, 2019) This morning the City of Pittsburgh and Urban Redevelopment Authority of Pittsburgh officials and Brighton Heights community members came together to celebrate with Natalie Perko, a new homeowner who purchased her home with help from the Housing Opportunity Fund’s (HOF) Down Payment and Closing Cost Assistance Program (DPCCAP). Ms. Perko, one of the first people to participate in the DPCCAP, received $5,000 in assistance to purchase the house. "The Housing Opportunity Fund is here to not only help residents like Natalie, but to support whole neighborhoods citywide. I want to thank all those who have worked so hard on the fund, from City Council to the URA staff to the Housing Opportunity Advisory board for all their efforts," Mayor William Peduto said. The DPCCAP stimulates housing investment in the City and encourages homeownership by providing financing to first-time homebuyers in the City of Pittsburgh. The application for the DPCCAP was released in January 2019. To date, 16 residents have participated in the program for a total of $60,000 in assistance. “The Down Payment and Closing Cost Assistance Program provides financial assistance for people to purchase their first home in the City and become a proud Pittsburgh homeowner. If you are thinking about buying a home, please call us to inquire about this program. We want to help you become a homeowner,” said Jessica Smith Perry, Housing Opportunity Fund Director. The HOF is the City’s local housing trust fund. The HOF was created in 2016 by City Ordinance to support the development and preservation of affordable and accessible housing in all areas of the city. In June 2018, the Mayor appointed a 17-person Advisory Board to help administer the fund. The Advisory Board members represent: local government, housing advocates, community members impacted by housing affordability and insecurity, the nonprofit and for-profit development community, and financial Institutions. The City committed to fund the HOF at the amount of $10 million per year for 12 years. It is anticipated that the $10 million in 2018 HOF funds will help at least 500 households. As part of the 2018 Allocation Plan, the HOF Department conducted the following five programs: - The Housing Stabilization Program – provides emergency rental assistance to prevent evictions   - The Rental Gap Program – funds development/preservation of rental housing for households at or below 50% Area Median Income (AMI)   - The Homeowner Assistance Program – provides up to $30,000 of home rehabilitation to homeowners at or below 50% AMI   - Down Payment and Closing Cost Assistance Program – provides up to $7,500 for down payment and closing cost assistance to buyers at or below 80% AMI and $5,000 for buyers above 80% but below 115% AMI   - For-Sale Development Program – funds the development of for-sale housing to be sold to homebuyers at or below 80% AMI   Across all five programs, to date, over $5 million from the 2018 allocation has been committed to nonprofit developers, homeowners, and/or first-time homebuyers. Another $10 million in 2019 HOF funds will be available by the end of this second quarter. For inquiries about the Down Payment and Closing Cost Assistance Program, please contact 412-255-6677. | 31/5/2019 09:03:03 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Friday, May 31, 2019 | Down Payment &amp; Closing Cost Assistance Press EventTime: 10:30 A.M.Location: 3224 Richardson Avenue, Brighton HeightsInterview With Boaz Frankel For Very Local Pittsburgh's "A Sandwich With..." SeriesTime: 12:00 P.M.Location: Tootie's, South Side FlatsMeeting With Brian &amp; Joshua SchreiberTime: 2:30 P.M.Location: Mayor's Conference Room, City-County BuildingMeeting With Chief Of Staff Daniel Gilman &amp; Deputy Chief Of Staff &amp; Chief Equity Officer Majestic LaneTime: 4:00 P.M.Location: Mayor's Conference Room, City-County Building | 31/5/2019 08:32:26 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Saturday, June 1, 2019 | ALCOSAN Ribbon Cutting For Sheradan Park Green Infrastructure ProjectTime: 11:30 A.M.Location: Sheradan Park, SheradanTaco Festival Ribbon CuttingTime: 1:00 P.M.Location: Highmark Stadium - Station Square, South Shore2019 Planned Parenthood Spring GalaTime: 7:15 P.M.Full Bloom - 11th Annual Kelly Strayhorn Theater Annual FundraiserTime: 8:00 P.M.Location: Kelly Strayhorn Theater, East Liberty | 1/6/2019 10:05:50 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Monday, June 3, 2019 | No public schedule. | 3/6/2019 08:47:32 |
| 'Better Recycling, Better Burgh' Workshops Work to Improve Recycling Throughout the City | PITTSBURGH, PA (June 3, 2019) The Office of Mayor William Peduto, Bureau of Environmental Services,  Division of Sustainability &amp; Resilience, and the Department of Environmental Protection to host four informational workshops on the importance of recycling and waste reduction.Who: Local residents; commercial building owners; landlords; business owners; community leaders; local organizations/groupsWhat: Four informational workshops, demonstrating the importance of recycling and how to improve recycling and reduce waste in the City. Residential sessions are designed for people in single-family dwellings and small apartments; commercial sessions are specifically for businesses and multi-unit apartments. Topics in the workshops will include:- Changes in recycling guidelines- New regulations- Tips to reduce waste- Hard-to-recycle materials- Expert panel discussionWhy: ‘Better Recycling, Better Burgh’ serves as an opportunity for the people of Pittsburgh to learn the impact of recycling in our community, as well as resources for better recycling in the City. In addition to discussing the value of recycling, the workshops will address current recycling guidelines and regulations.When: June 5, 2019            9:00 – 10:30 a.m. – Commercial session            6:30 – 8:00 p.m. – Residential session            June 12, 2019            9:00 – 10:30 a.m. – Commercial session            6:30 – 8:00 p.m. – Residential session                     Where: Construction Junction, Community Room              214 North Lexington Avenue, Pittsburgh, PA 15212 | 3/6/2019 11:52:16 |
| Woodruff At Merrimac Intersection Improvements | PITTSBURGH, PA (June 3, 2019) The Department of Mobility and Infrastructure is pleased to announce the commencement of construction of the Woodruff at Merrimac Intersection Improvement Project, a project identified by the Department as a Safety Improvement and Neighborhood Traffic Calming Response project funded through the 2018 Capital Budget.  The purpose of the $80,000 project is to provide pedestrians with safer marked street crossings by reducing motorists’ speeds. These objectives will be accomplished by installing a new pedestrian refuge island on Woodruff Street; modifying the existing traffic island at the intersection; better delineating lanes and motorist movements; providing new crosswalks across both Woodruff and Merrimac Streets at the intersection.2018 speed and volume data collection found the median speed on Woodruff Street to be 32 mph, with 94% motorists travelling over the posted speed limit of 25 mph. Nearby on Merrimac Street, the median speed was 29 mph, with 81% of motorists travelling over the posted speed limit of 25 mph. After completion of the project, the Department will collect data to determine if project objectives for safety and speed compliance have been accomplished.Work is tentatively expected to begin on June 3, 2019, and is expected to last approximately four weeks, weather permitting. Hours of construction will be Monday through Friday, 7:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. Lane restrictions may occur. Alternating through-traffic, at a minimum, will be maintained. We understand this may be a short-term inconvenience required to achieve long-term improvement in the neighborhood.This project is part of a group of traffic improvement projects throughout the City. Additional projects in Council District 2 will be discussed at an upcoming public meeting with the Department of Mobility and Infrastructure and hosted by the Council District in Mount Washington - date to be announced.If you have any questions regarding this notice or the road construction project, feel free to contact the Project Manager at DOMI.Woodruff@pittsburghpa.gov.  Thank you for your patience and cooperation during this project. | 3/6/2019 11:47:45 |
| Smart Garbage Cans Deployed Citywide | PITTSBURGH, PA (June 4, 2019) More than 1,000 public garbage cans containing sensors that track how full the cans are have been successfully deployed around Pittsburgh. The Department of Public Works first proposed adopting the cans in 2017, when it recognized the need to replace hundreds of old litter cans around the city, and knowing that the smart cans would help with efficiencies and cost savings. Studies by DPW and the Department of Innovation and Performance of the smart cans since their original deployment have shown that they result in savings of at least half the labor hours needed for the emptying typical cans, allowing DPW to reallocate resources to other needed tasks, such as pothole patching, litter picking, and weed and debris clearing. “The smart cans allow DPW to offer better refuse services to Pittsburgh residents and neighborhood business districts, while freeing up our workers to do other work to keep the city tidy,” DPW Director Mike Gable said. “Based on our analysis, we expect that the smart litter cans will give us the ability to make process improvements that will reduce the amount of labor hours spent on emptying garbage cans by at least half,” said Matt Jacob, the project manager for the program for the Department of Innovation and Performance. “As a result, DPW will be able to reallocate those resources to other tasks." DPW is in talks with unions representing its workers to possibly open a centralized litter can division and introduce expanded weekend garbage can collection services in business districts. The city’s capital budgets from 2017-2019 earmarked a total of $670,000 for smart can purchases, covering both entirely new cans and lids with sensors to retrofit existing cans. The city’s vendor for the receptacles is Victor Stanley.  Photo: Smart garbage cans with old cans in foreground. Credit: City of Pittsburgh Department of Innovation &amp; Performance. | 4/6/2019 09:42:41 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Tuesday, June 4, 2019 | PITTSBURGH, PA (June 4, 2019) Mayor William Peduto is in New York City today for the 2019 Yale Mayors College &amp; CEO Summit, a yearly gathering of mayors and business leaders from around the country. The Yale School of Management describes the Mayors College this way: “Bringing together mayors from mid-sized to large cities across the U.S. with leading scholars in healthcare policy, urban sociology, and history, the Yale Mayors College is an intensive one day peer-driven roundtable, offering a highly interactive environment with case studies from participant and other leading global cities. Participants are joined by 150 global CEOs and policy figures for the linked Yale CEO Summit.” Organizers are paying the costs of Mayor Peduto’s travel. No city tax dollars are being spent. He returns to Pittsburgh tomorrow evening. Mayors attending are scheduled to include: Bryan K. Barnett, Rochester Hills MI; Byron W. Brown, Buffalo NY; Tim Keller, Albuquerque, NM; Harry LaRosiliere, Plano TX; David R. Martin, Stamford CT; Tony Martinez, Brownsville TX; Paul Soglin, Madison WI; Levar Stoney, Richmond VA; Victoria Woodards, Tacoma WA; Joseph P. Ganim, Bridgeport CT; Will Joyce, Stillwater OK; Dee Margo, El Paso TX; Catherine E. Pugh, Baltimore MD; Libby Schaaf, Oakland CA; Tom Schwedhelm, Santa Rosa CA; Alan Webber, Santa Fe NM; Stephen K. Benjamin, Columbia SC; Jim Brainard, Carmel IN; LaToya Cantrell, New Orleans LA; David A. Condon, Spokane WA; Toni Harp, New Haven CT; Tim Mahoney, Fargo ND; Jon Mitchell, New Bedford MA; Jim Strickland, Memphis TN;  Steve Williams, Huntington WV; Luke A. Bronin, Hartford CT; Greg Fischer, Louisville KY; James B. Hovland, Edina MN; Christina Muryn, Findlay OH; Adrian Perkins, Shreveport LA; Madeline Rogero, Knoxville TN; Kevin Scarpati, Meriden CT; Thomas Small, Culver City CA; and Jeff Williams, Arlington TX. Mayor William Peduto’s Public Schedule – Tuesday, June 4, 2019:Introductions by Jeffrey A. Sonnenfeld, Yale School of Management, and Richard Berry; Mayor (2009-2017), Albuquerque NM; Fellow, Yale CELITime: 11 a.m. Community and Economic Development panel with Ray Dalio Founder, Co-Chairman &amp; Co-Chief Investment Officer; Bridgewater Associates; Nigel Travis Chairman, Dunkin’ Brands; Lynn Taliento Founder &amp; Senior Advisor, Philanthropy Practice; McKinsey &amp; Company; and Carrie Morgridge Chief Disruptor, Morgridge Family Foundation.Time: 1 p.m. Crisis Management panel with Steven Lipin Founder, Chairman &amp; CEO; Gladstone Place Partners, and Courtland Reichman, Managing Partner, Reichman JorgensenTime: 2:30 p.m. Infrastructure panel 1 with Richard L. Kauffman Chair, Energy Research &amp; Development Authority; New York State; Lani Ingram Vice President for Smart Communities; Verizon Communications; Lauren Love-Wright Vice President for Network Engineering; Verizon Communications; Ed DiSanto EVP, CAO &amp; General Counsel; American Tower Corporation; and Ed Knapp, Chief Technology Officer, American Tower CorporationTime: 3:30 p.m. Infrastructure panel 2 with David P. Abney Chairman &amp; CEO, UPS; Mark Fields, Former President &amp; CEO, Ford Motor Company; and Doug Parker Chairman &amp; CEO, American Airlines Group.Time: 4 p.m. Presenting the Maverick in Leadership Award to Edward W. Stack, Chairman &amp; Chief Executive Officer, Dick’s Sporting GoodsTime: 7 p.m. | 4/6/2019 09:27:13 |
| Mayor Peduto to Honor Dick's Sporting Goods CEO Edward Stack | PITTSBURGH, PA (July 4, 2019) Mayor William Peduto is in New York City tonight where he will honor Ed Stack, the chairman and CEO of Dick’s Sporting Goods, for his work on behalf of common-sense gun safety measures. Under Stack’s direction, Dick’s removed all assault-style firearms, high-capacity magazines and bump stocks from its stores following the February 2018 massacre at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Florida. He has also lobbied Congress to adopt universal background checks and other reasonable forms of gun regulation, and is part of an Everytown for Gun Safety business council. Mayor Peduto is at the Yale Mayor’s College and CEO Summit, where he will help present Stack with the summit’s Maverick in Leadership Award. Joining the Mayor in presenting the award will be Farooq Kathwari, Chairman, President &amp; CEO of  Ethan Allen. “It’s my honor to present Ed Stack with this award, and to celebrate the integrity and courage he has shown in taking on what we in Pittsburgh know to be one of the most important fights of our time – protecting our neighborhoods, schools, places of worship and all public places from the gun violence epidemic,” Mayor Peduto said. Dick’s Sporting Goods is headquartered in Coraopolis. | 4/6/2019 13:54:58 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Wednesday, June 5, 2019 | PITTSBURGH, PA (June 5, 2019) Mayor William Peduto is in New York City today for the 2019 Yale Mayors College &amp; CEO Summit, a yearly gathering of mayors and business leaders from around the country. The Yale School of Management describes the Mayors College this way: “Bringing together mayors from mid-sized to large cities across the U.S. with leading scholars in healthcare policy, urban sociology, and history, the Yale Mayors College is an intensive one day peer-driven roundtable, offering a highly interactive environment with case studies from participant and other leading global cities. Participants are joined by 150 global CEOs and policy figures for the linked Yale CEO Summit.” Organizers are paying the costs of Mayor Peduto’s travel. No city tax dollars are being spent. He returns to Pittsburgh this evening. Mayors attending are scheduled to include: Bryan K. Barnett, Rochester Hills MI; Byron W. Brown, Buffalo NY; Tim Keller, Albuquerque, NM; Harry LaRosiliere, Plano TX; David R. Martin, Stamford CT; Tony Martinez, Brownsville TX; Paul Soglin, Madison WI; Levar Stoney, Richmond VA; Victoria Woodards, Tacoma WA; Joseph P. Ganim, Bridgeport CT; Will Joyce, Stillwater OK; Dee Margo, El Paso TX; Catherine E. Pugh, Baltimore MD; Libby Schaaf, Oakland CA; Tom Schwedhelm, Santa Rosa CA; Alan Webber, Santa Fe NM; Stephen K. Benjamin, Columbia SC; Jim Brainard, Carmel IN; LaToya Cantrell, New Orleans LA; David A. Condon, Spokane WA; Toni Harp, New Haven CT; Tim Mahoney, Fargo ND; Jon Mitchell, New Bedford MA; Jim Strickland, Memphis TN;  Steve Williams, Huntington WV; Luke A. Bronin, Hartford CT; Greg Fischer, Louisville KY; James B. Hovland, Edina MN; Christina Muryn, Findlay OH; Adrian Perkins, Shreveport LA; Madeline Rogero, Knoxville TN; Kevin Scarpati, Meriden CT; Thomas Small, Culver City CA; and Jeff Williams, Arlington TX. Mayor William Peduto’s Public Schedule – Wednesday, June 5, 2019:(All locations: New York Public Library) Welcome and Overview – Celeste Bartos Forum Jeffrey A. Sonnenfeld, Senior Associate Dean, YALE School of Management Anthony W. Marx, President &amp; CEO, The New York Public LibraryTime: 8 a.m. Session 3 Keeping Your Head above Water: CEO Voice in Turbulent Global Seas, with Kevin Rudd; President, Asia Society Policy Inst.; 26th Prime Minister of Australia Ashton B. Carter; 25th US Secretary of Defense; Author, Inside the Five-Sided Box Lloyd C. Blankfein, Senior Chairman, The Goldman Sachs Group David P. Abney, Chairman &amp; CEO, UPS Sara Eisen; Co-Anchor, Closing Bell; CNBC Maurice R. Greenberg, Chairman &amp; CEO, CV Starr &amp; Co.Time: 9 a.m. Session 4 Revising the Rules: CEO Voice &amp; Fairness, with David M. Solomon, Chairman &amp; Chief Executive Officer, The Goldman Sachs Group Stephen A. Schwarzman, Chairman &amp; CEO, Blackstone Joseph B. Ucuzoglu, Chief Executive Officer, Deloitte US Roger McNamee; Managing Director, Elevation Partners; Author, Zucked Kara Swisher, Co-Founder &amp; Executive Editor, Recode Andrew Ross Sorkin; Editor, DealBook, The New York Times; Co-Anchor, CNBCTime: 11 a.m. Session 5 Breaking through the Tech Clouds: CEO Voice &amp; Clarity, with Ginni Rometty; Chairman, President &amp; CEO; IBM Indra K. Nooyi, Chairman &amp; CEO (2006-2018), PepsiCo Doug Parker, Chairman &amp; CEO, American Airlines Group Ivan Seidenberg; Retd. Chair &amp; CEO, Verizon; Author, Verizon Untethered Stuart Miller, Executive Chairman, Lennar Corporation W. Rodney McMullen, Chairman &amp; CEO, The Kroger Co. Carlos Rodriguez, President &amp; CEO, ADP Alex Taylor, President &amp; CEO, Cox EnterprisesTime: 2 p.m. Session 6 Legend in Leadership Award to Virginia M. Rometty, Chairman, President &amp; CEO; IBM CorporationTime: 4 p.m. Flight to PittsburghTime: 7 p.m. | 5/6/2019 09:21:10 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Thursday, June 6, 2019 | Meeting With Chief Of Staff Daniel Gilman, Pittsburgh Water &amp; Sewer Authority Boars Chair Paul Leger &amp; Executive Director Robert Weimar, &amp; Chief Sustainability Officer Grant ErvinTime: 1:30 P.M.Location: Mayor's Conference Room, City-County BuildingWeekly Scheduling MeetingTime: 3:30 P.M.Location: Mayor's Conference Room, City-County BuildingTree Pittsburgh's Pizza On The Porch EventTime: 6:00 P.M.Location: Tree Pittsburgh, Upper LawrencevilleMayoral Forum On Digital Equity &amp; Inclusion With Mayor of Chattanooga Andrew BurkeTime: 6:30 P.M.Location: Point Park University Center For Media Innovation, Central Business District | 6/6/2019 09:06:12 |
| Fitzgerald, Peduto Statement on Access to UPMC Hillman Cancer Center | PITTSBURGH, PA (June 6, 2019) County Executive Rich Fitzgerald and City of Pittsburgh Mayor William Peduto issued the following joint statement in response to UPMC’s announcement that UPMC Hillman Cancer Care will be available to all at in-network rates after June 30:“We are delighted with today’s announcement by UPMC that UPMC Hillman Cancer Care will be available to all insurers at in-network rates. Along with yesterday’s announcements that prepayment will not be required from Highmark Medicare Advantage members and that UPMC will accept direct payment from Highmark for out-of-network emergency care at the same rate, these first steps continue to move us toward the goal of providing greater health care access for our region’s residents.We have spent over five years working towards ensuring access for residents in our communities, and the greater region. This is how progress happens – by continuing to work together and engaging with all parties. We are thankful to the executives of both UPMC and Highmark for continuing to engage in conversation with us and acknowledging that our interest has always been about doing what’s in the best interest of our residents. We look forward to continuing these productive conversations and improving access to health care here in the Pittsburgh region.”Contacts:Amie M. Downs Allegheny County 412-350-3711 (office) 412-327-3700 (cell) amie.downs@alleghenycounty.usTimothy McNulty City of Pittsburgh 412-255-2619 (office) 412-660-1999 (cell) timothy.mcnulty@pittsburghpa.gov | 6/6/2019 16:06:42 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Friday, June 7, 2019 | Presenting Proclamation To Moms Demand Action &amp; Everytown For Gun Safety For National Gun Violence Awareness DayTime: 11:00 A.M.Location: Mayor's Conference Room, City-County BuildingMeeting With Shannah Tharp-GilliamTime: 1:00 P.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County BuildingMeeting With Edda L. Fields-Black &amp; Lee PringleTime: 2:00 P.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County BuildingMeeting With Mitch SwainTime: 2:30 P.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County BuildingMeeting With City Solicitor &amp; Chief Legal Officer Yvonne HiltonTime: 3:30 P.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County Building | 7/6/2019 07:59:43 |
| City and PWSA Introduce New Cooperation Agreement | PITTSBURGH, PA (June 7, 2019) A new cooperation agreement between the City and the Pittsburgh Water and Sewer Authority is being introduced for consideration by City Council next week. The updated agreement mandates that the authority will remain publicly-owned and reflects a more business-like relationship between the two bodies.The current cooperation agreement between the City and PWSA ends July 5, 2019. Much of the language in the new agreement – such as requirements that the City make payments for PWSA water and sewer services, and that PWSA make payments for city services – is necessitated by the Pennsylvania Public Utility Commission, which assumed oversight of the PWSA last year. Several provisions reflect recommendations made by the Mayor’s Blue Ribbon Panel on PWSA.“In the past five years, following decades of disinvestment and poor management of the PWSA, the authority has been making great strides at becoming more accountable and more customer-friendly to Pittsburgh residents. This agreement is a needed next step in formalizing those positive changes,” Mayor William Peduto said.“The updated agreement reflects the reality that PWSA is evolving into a mature and modern publicly-owned water, sewer and stormwater utility. The agreement creates a reasonable and justified footing for how the City and PWSA will interact in the future,” PWSA board chair Paul Leger said.  Under the cooperation agreement:- The City will pay PWSA for water, sewer and fire hydrant charges on a five-year phased-in basis beginning in January 2020- PWSA will reimburse the City for PWSA employees enrolled in the City pension plan- PWSA will begin paying City permit fees- PWSA will take control over the Pennsylvania American Water Company ratepayer subsidy agreement- All City facilities will be metered (with the cost of placing meters shared by both entities)- The City will be treated like a commercial customer in regard to water service line and sewer lateral maintenance, with two distinctions (a five-year phase-in for City costs, and PWSA will maintain all lines/laterals in City parks larger than 50 acres)- PWSA will pay for city services such as fuel for authority vehicles, fleet maintenance and street sweeping costs- All payments between the City and PWSA will meet auditing standardsA copy of the proposed cooperation agreement is available here. Resolutions on the agreement will be introduced to Pittsburgh City Council on Tuesday and the PWSA board at its next meeting June 28. | 7/6/2019 09:13:11 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Monday, June 10, 2019 | Meeting With Peggy OttTime: 11:00 A.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County BuildingInterview With Lynne Hayes-FreelandTime: 11:30 A.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County BuildingMeeting With Chief Of Staff Daniel Gilman, Director Of Public Safety Wendell Hissrich, City Solicitor Yvonne Hilton, &amp; Chief Of Police Scott SchubertTime: 1:00 P.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County BuildingMeeting With Ralph WatsonTime: 2:00 P.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County BuildingMeeting With Bellevue, PA Mayor Emily MarburgerTime: 2:30 P.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County BuildingMeeting With Chief Of Staff Daniel Gilman, Director Of Innovation &amp; Performance Santiago Garces, &amp; Special Initiatives Manager Laura DrogowskiTime: 3:30 P.M.Location: Mayor's Conference Room, City-County BuildingMeeting With City Solicitor Yvonne HiltonTime: 4:30 P.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County BuildingUnited Nations and Gender Equity Commission Presenting Mayor Peduto with Global Leadership AwardTime: 6:30 P.M.Location: Wigle Whiskey, The Strip District | 10/6/2019 08:28:19 |
| City To Receive Funds To Purchase New Charging Stations &amp; Electric Vehicles | PITTSBURGH, PA (June 10, 2019) The City of Pittsburgh, Office of Mayor William Peduto and the Office of Management and Budget are excited to announce the Pennsylvania Department of Environment Protection's Alternative Incentive has granted the city with $135,160.    These funds will be allocated to add eight new dual hosed electric vehicle charging stations to the Second Avenue fleet lot. This grant is a required 1:1 match from the City of Pittsburgh for this declared purpose for a total project cost of $270,320. Currently, the city has 19 charging stations and with the new addition will have a total of 27 stations. The date for the new charging station to be built has not been set.  Also, the Pennsylvania Department of Environment Protection's Alternative Incentive program has granted the city $67,500.00 to purchase nine new electric vehicles to add to the city's fleet. Supporting funds for the purchase of the sedans are identified in the 2019 City of Pittsburgh Capital Budget. The existing fleet has ten electric cars and will now have a new total of 19 with the newly purchased vehicles. The new vehicles were purchased at the beginning of June. | 10/6/2019 10:44:23 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Tuesday, June 11, 2019 | InnovatePGH Leadership Committee MeetingTime: 9:00 A.M.Location: Oaklander Hotel, North OaklandProduce Terminal Building Groundbreaking CeremonyTime: 2:00 P.M.Location: The Produce Terminal, The Strip District | 11/6/2019 08:36:52 |
| URA Board to Consider Several Affordable Housing Initiatives | PITTSBURGH, PA (June 12, 2019) Renovation of ten affordable homes in the Hill District, Lawrenceville and Oakland are set to be approved tomorrow by the board of the Urban Redevelopment Authority of Pittsburgh. The URA board is also set to issue a Request for Proposals for a construction manager to oversee “Roof-A-Thon,” a pilot program to fix roofs at up to 30 affordable properties citywide. In the Hill District, the Housing Opportunity Fund is seeking approval for $85,000 in For-Sale Development Grants and a $50,000 deferred mortgage agreement to renovate and sell two affordable homes on Mahon Street and Landleiss Place by the Hill Community Development Corporation. The Hill CDC plans to rehabilitate the homes and resell them for homeownership to homebuyers at less than 80% area median income. The URA board will also consider $825,750 in financing for the acquisition and renovation of six affordable single-family houses in Lawrenceville, through a project by the Lawrenceville Corporation (LC), in partnership with the newly formed organization City of Bridges Community Land Trust.  A Community Land Trust (CLT) is a tool that creates permanently affordable home ownership opportunities for individuals who have been fully priced out of the private market. Through the use of a ground-lease, CLTs set a maximum resale price designed to give homeowners a return on their investment, while also ensuring that future homebuyers at the same income level have access to affordable homeownership. The bulk of the financing for the Lawrenceville homes comes from the Housing Opportunity Fund For-Sale Development Program (FSDP), in a grant of $300,000. In Oakland, the Oakland Planning and Development Corporation (OPDC) plans to acquire and rehabilitate two homes on Parkview Avenue and Robinson Street for sale to homebuyers at less than 80% area median income. A CLT will own the land and the homebuyers will own the structures.  When the houses are resold, they must be resold to households at or below 80% AMI.   It is being supported by a Housing Opportunity Fund FSDP grant of $140,000 and a FSDP predevelopment loan of $72,000. Finally, the URA board is set to approve a Request for Proposals from a qualified construction manager to help administer a pilot “Roof-A-Thon" program, in which the HOF would help low income homeowners fix leaky roofs that lead to health problems and long-term maintenance issues, especially in older housing stock. The HOF advisory board has reserved $250,000 of the 2018 Homeowner Assistance Program funding to seed the pilot program, which would fund roof repairs at 25 to 30 homes. The HOF will be taking applications from low-income homeowners who cannot afford such repairs. | 12/6/2019 14:29:08 |
| New Public Art Project at Uptown Park Includes Solar-Powered Charging Stations and WiFi | PITTSBURGH, PA (June 12, 2019)  The City of Pittsburgh is proud to present ProjectCONNECT, a Public Art project in Tustin Park, in the Uptown area. The art project is a collaboration between The Public Art + Civic Design Division (PA+CD) and the Strategic Planning Division of the Department of City Planning.ProjectCONNECT is an artistic implementation by the Pittsburgh-based collective HackPGH ( www.hackpgh.org), MetaMesh Wireless &amp; Communities ( www.metamesh.org), and Daniel Klein. The project represents one of three Public Art interventions to be deployed in Uptown as part of the new Uptown Public Art Program. This program was developed in collaboration with the Uptown community as an implementation project of the adopted Uptown / West Oakland EcoInnovation District Plan.The final product is an innovative and utilitarian public art project that includes two solar-powered charging stations, free WiFi for visitors to Tustin Park and residents of the surrounding area.On February 2, 2018, a Request for Proposals was released to solicit artists, artist collectives, designers, and educational and arts institutions to create a public art project for Tustin Park. An advisory committee was created to help the City shortlist proposals; this committee included City staff, business owners and stakeholders of the area, residents, and two visual artists. The final selection was made by a City Committee that evaluated the projects under a scoring system that took into consideration the project's creativity, innovation, aesthetics, public value, and integration to the site, as well as other components from the EcoInnovation District Plan such as identity, connectivity, performance, and potential for equity.For the last year, members of HackPGH and the Department of City Planning have held community and working groups to redefine the original ProjectCONNECT proposal and bring the project to completion. The stations, which will be illuminated at night, are cohesively joined by artistic elements including a colorful fence installation, informative signs, and an artistic marquee. The fence installation creates a gradient pixelated wall with multicolored charms that display etched phrases and drawings provided by neighbors of the park during meetings with the community. The different elements together strive to represent the history, equality, and united community voice of Uptown.HackPGH, MetaMesh and Mr. Klein stated as a collective that, “as members of the Uptown and Tustin Street Community, we are optimistic about the future of our neighborhood. Our team of designers, artists, and makers have been enthusiastic participants in the EcoInnovation District planning and implementation process. We see ProjectCONNECT as an opportunity to further connect with our neighbors across socioeconomic differences in ways that will contribute to Uptown’s neighborhood identity.”On Saturday, June 29th from 4:00 p.m. to 11:00 p.m. a block party will take place at the park at 2028 Tustin St, Pittsburgh, PA 15219. This party will embrace the community, celebrate Uptown neighbors, and the completion of the new public art installation.For information about the Art or Artist contact:Yesica GuerraPublic Art and Civic Design ManagerCity of PittsburghDepartment of City Planning200 Ross St. 4th floor, Pittsburgh, PA 15219[p] 412.255.8996[e] yesica.guerra@pittsburghpa.govFor information about the EcoInnovation Plan:Derek DauphinSenior PlannerCity of PittsburghDepartment of City Planning200 Ross St., 4th Floor Pittsburgh, PA 15219[p] 412.255.4897[e] derek.dauphin@pittsburghpa.gov | 12/6/2019 10:43:01 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Wednesday, June 12, 2019 | Speaking at Charlotte Regional Business Alliance Visit to PittsburghTime: 12:00 P.M.Location: Phipps ConservatoryMeeting with Charlotte Mayor Vi LylesTime: 12:30 P.M.Location: Phipps ConservatoryMeeting with Thomas Hoffman and Brenda SmithTime: 3:00 P.M.Location: Mayor's Conference Room, City-County BuildingSpeaking at Allegheny City Stables Project GroundbreakingTime: 4:00 P.M.Location: 836 W. North Ave, Allegheny WestSpeaking at Forward Cities ConferenceTime: 6:00 P.M.Location: The Westin Pittsburgh, Central Business DistrictSpeaking at "Paris to Pittsburgh" Showing at Audubon SocietyTime: 8:20 P.M.Location: The Oak Theater, Oakmont, PA | 12/6/2019 10:27:29 |
| Potholes &amp; Pierogies: Dinner and Discussion of the 2010 Capital Budget Forums Begin Thursday | PITTSBURGH, PA (June 13, 2019) The City of Pittsburgh’s Office of Management and Budget and Office of Community Affairs are hosting their two annual “Potholes and Pierogies: Dinner and a Discussion of the 2020 Capital Budget” deliberative forums. These forums offer residents a space to learn about the city’s capital budget, discuss priorities with other residents, community leaders and city officials, share their ideas on budget priorities, and add their voices to the budgeting process.  The first forum is tonight: Thursday, June 13, 2019 6:00-8:30 PM  Allegheny Center Museum Lab at the Children's Museum of Pittsburgh 10 Children's Way Pittsburgh, PA 15212 The second forum will be: Tuesday, June 18, 2019 6:00 – 8:30 PM South Side Flats Pittsburgh Federation of Teachers 10 S. 19th Street Pittsburgh, PA 15203 Each Deliberative Forum Includes: • A brief overview of the budgeting process • Small group discussions of budget priorities and residents’ needs • An opportunity for residents to ask questions of an expert panel • A survey for all attendees to complete to add their ideas and opinions to the budgeting process • Dinner and refreshments The forums are open and free for all residents. Dinner and on-site childcare are provided. Locations have free vehicle parking, bicycle parking and access to public transit and are accessible for all abilities. Interpretive services are available by contacting cip@pittsburghpa.gov in advance.  Attendees can register at http://pittsburghpa.gov/omb/cip/. Residents unable to attend are encouraged to check out the City’s budget engagement tool to learn about and comment on the capital budget online at https://pittsburgh.abalancingact.com/capital. All feedback will be considered in the budget process. | 13/6/2019 11:38:41 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Thursday, June 13, 2019 | SWPA Father's Day PledgeTime: 12:00 P.M.Location: United States Steel Tower Courtyard, Central Business DistrictRibbon Cutting For Sandstone Quarry Homes With Housing Authority Of The City Of PittsburghTime: 2:00 P.M.Location: 1660 Sandusky Court, FineviewNorth Side Leadership Conference's Annual Scholarship &amp; AwardsTime: 6:00 P.M.Location: The Priory, East AlleghenyLawrenceville Corporation's Annual Community Catalyst CelebrationTime: 6:30 P.M.Location: The Clemente Museum, Lower Lawrenceville | 13/6/2019 09:16:50 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Friday, June 14, 2019 | Welcoming Sesame Street To Pittsburgh Ahead Of Schenley Park FestivalTime: 9:30 A.M.Location: Carnegie Science Center, ChateauNational Flag Foundation's Celebration Of Unity and Civility For Flag DayTime: 11:30 A.M.Location: United Steelworkers Building, Central Business DistrictOdd Pittsburgh InterviewTime: 1:00 P.M.Locations: Office of the Mayor, City-County Building1-579 Cap GroundbreakingTime: 2:00 P.M.Location: PPG West Lot - Centre Avenue &amp; Washington Place, Central Business DistrictFireside Chat With Mayor Nan Whaley Of Dayton - Hosted By All For All &amp; Welcoming AmericaTime: 6:00 P.M.Location: Alloy Studios, Friendship | 14/6/2019 08:01:34 |
| 2019 Summer Food Program to Start | PITTSBURGH, PA (June ##, 2019) The City of Pittsburgh Department of Parks and Recreation is thrilled to announce the Summer Food Program will begin on June 17, 2019, and run until August 23, 2019. The Summer Free Food Program is for anyone under the age of 18 or residents with intellectual disabilities up to age 21.    Citiparks’ Summer Food Service program provides healthy and delicious breakfasts, lunches, and/or snacks. The Summer Food Service Program (SFSP) operates at approximately 80 City locations throughout the summer, including our Mobile Food Truck. This service is made possible by funding from the US Department of Agriculture through the Pennsylvania Department of Education.   CitiParks has been partnering with Pittsburgh Public School District since 2015 to provide the Mobile Food Truck (MFT). The MFT program operates in conjunction with the Citiparks Roving Art Cart and serves free lunches at all of it’s scheduled stops.  The SFSP served approximately 142,000 meals in 2018 - 2,200 of those meals were through the MFT program. For list of locations click here. | 17/6/2019 09:01:03 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Monday, June 17, 2019 | Speaking at CEIR ConferenceTime: 12:30 P.M.Location: Duquesne University Power Center BallroomMeeting with FUSE Fellow Mica WilliamsTime: 2:00 P.M.Location:  Mayor's Conference Room, City-County BuildingMeeting with Stephanie TurmanTime: 3:00 P.M.Location:  Office of the Mayor, City-County Building | 17/6/2019 08:29:21 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Tuesday, June 18, 2019 | Presenting The Greater Pittsburgh Arts Council Mayor's Award For Public ArtTime: 12:30 P.M.Location: David L. Lawrence Convention Center, Central Business DistrictMeeting With City Solicitor Yvonne HiltonTime: 1:30 P.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County BuildingMeeting With Dell Technologies Senior LeadershipTime: 2:30 P.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County BuildingMeeting With Councilman Anthony CoghillTime: 3:30 P.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County Building | 18/6/2019 08:14:50 |
| Statement by Mayor William Peduto on Man Arrested on Terrorism Charges | PITTSBURGH, PA (June 19, 2019) Mayor William Peduto released the following statement today on the arrest of Pittsburgh resident Mustafa Mousab Alowemer, on charges of seeking to assist ISIS in an attack on a church in the city’s North Side: “On behalf of the citizens of Pittsburgh I want to thank the U.S. Attorney’s office and the Federal Bureau of Investigation for their arrest today, and the daily investigative work they and the Pittsburgh Bureau of Police do to protect us from acts of terrorism and hate.  Today’s events are especially alarming due to the suspect’s alleged target of yet another place of worship in our city, like the Tree of Life synagogue, which should be peaceful places of refuge and reflection that are free of threats of violence. Pittsburgh has historically been a home for refugees and immigrants and will continue to be one. In debates over the refugee crisis the past several years, as people from around the world have sought to flee violence and misery and seek better lives for their families in the United States, I have always been consistent in our message: we welcome all refugees and immigrants, and we oppose hate against anyone in any form, and we also cooperate with law enforcement whenever legitimate and dangerous crimes are threatening us.  Today, unfortunately, those threats come from everywhere. The record shows most terrorists attacking the United States are domestic, such as the man who murdered 11 Tree of Life worshippers in October. The City of Pittsburgh will continue to welcome newcomers to our city and nation, while diligently working with federal law enforcement and others to keep us safe, and to eradicate all attempts to threaten and terrify us.” | 19/6/2019 19:00:00 |
| Public Meeting Thursday on Four Mile Run Improvement Plans | PITTSBURGH, PA (June 19, 2019) The Pittsburgh Water and Sewer Authority (PWSA) and the City of Pittsburgh’s Department of Mobility and Infrastructure (DOMI) will hold a public meeting Thursday on the Four Mile Run (4MR) Stormwater Improvement Project and the Mon-Oakland Mobility Project. The purpose of the public meeting is to update attendees on the progress and current status of the projects and encourage input throughout. The meeting details are as follows:DATE:    Thursday, June 20, 2019TIME :    6:00 to 8:00 PM. Doors Open: 6:00 PM. Presentations: 6:30 to 7:00 PM. Q&amp;A and Small Group Discussions: 7:00 to 8:00 PMLOCATION: Local 95 Union Hall (300 Saline St., Pittsburgh, PA 15207)The 4MR Stormwater Improvement Project will capture and route the flow of stormwater through a naturalized surface channel that will generally follow the path of the historic streams that formed Four Mile Run from Panther Hollow Lake to the Monongahela River. This project also includes the restoration of recreational uses of Panther Hollow Lake. At the meeting, PWSA will discuss its quality assurance and its peer review process that ensures the project is implementable and effective. PWSA will also discuss anticipated project costs and funding sources as they relate to the different components of the design.In conjunction with PWSA, DOMI is initiating the Preliminary Design Phase for the Mon-Oakland Mobility Project. The Mobility Project is part of the City of Pittsburgh’s efforts to create a publicly accessible and controlled mobility corridor that will connect the neighborhoods of Hazelwood, Greenfield, Four Mile Run and Oakland. The plan also includes a separate bike/ped trail to enable non-motorized transportation between these neighborhoods. The bike/ped trail includes improvements to the Junction Hollow Trail in Schenley Park. At the meeting, DOMI will provide a study phase recap and present design phase next steps. For more information about the projects, visit www.4mr.org and www.mon-oaklandmobility.com.The Public Meeting location is compliant with the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA). In addition, if you or an individual with whom you are familiar does not speak English as their primary language and who has a limited ability to read, write, speak, or understand English desires to participate in this meeting or if you require special assistance to attend and/or participate in this meeting or need additional information please contact Carrie Machuga, at McCormick Taylor, Inc. at (412) 922-6880.For questions regarding the PWSA 4MR Stormwater Improvement Project, please contact Rebecca Zito at 412-683-1462 or rzito@pgh2o.com.For questions regarding the DOMI Mon-Oakland Connector Project, please contact Michael Panzitta at 412-255-0816 or michael.panzitta@pittsburghpa.gov. | 19/6/2019 14:03:47 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Wednesday, June 19, 2019 | Spirit Of King Honoree Plaque UnveilingTime: 11:00 A.M.Location: Penn Avenue at Shady Avenue, Shadyside-East Liberty BorderMeeting With CB BhattacharyaTime: 1:00 P.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County BuildingWeekly Meeting With Director Of Public Safety Wendell Hissrich &amp; Chief Of Police Scott SchubertTime: 2:00 P.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County Building | 19/6/2019 07:56:49 |
| City Serves More Than 1 Million Meals to Children Among Citywide Food Improvement Efforts | PITTSBURGH, PA (June 20, 2019) Mayor William Peduto today celebrated the kickoff of the 2019 Summer Food Program, and findings that the City’s food programs have served more than 1 million meals since they were reformed in 2015.Meals served by Citiparks’ GrubUp program accompany many more food-related initiatives backed by the Peduto Administration the past five years, including:- Providing meals during the 2018-2019 federal government shutdown- Completing a study of City Farmer’s Markets- Promoting National School Breakfast Week- Promoting Minority/Women/Immigrant-owned and operated businesses during the Inclusive Innovation Summit- Supporting urban agriculture- Supporting volunteerism at food banks- Promoting Community Supported Agriculture (CSAs)- Joining the international Urban Food Policy PactIn the Pittsburgh region, there are more than 42,000 children who are food insecure. To address that the City provides free breakfast and lunch programs at all PPS locations, and after school snacks and dinners at the City recreation centers.About one in seven children take advantage of free summer meals in the Pittsburgh region. To expand access to the free meals in September of 2015 the Mayor launched Grub Up, the City’s summer meal campaign, which served 1,009,411 meals as of 2018 .“When children are underfed they cannot be empowered to live, play and learn to their full potential. I am proud of all the efforts we have undertaken to address that challenge, and other initiatives we have pushed to provide healthy and locally-sourced food to all,” Mayor Peduto said.Following is a list of food-related work the administration has undertaken since 2014.1) After School Meals Served- Child Adult Care Food Program (CACFP)220,260 Total Meals Served as of 2018 (Snacks and Suppers)- 2014-2015=3,124 Meals- 2015-2016=85,041 Meals- 2016-2017=85,180 Meals- 2017-2018=46,915 Meals2) Summer Food Meals Served-Summer Food Service Program (SFSP)789,151 Total Meals Served as of 2018 (Breakfast, Lunch, Snacks)- 2014=138, 081 Meals- 2015=182,039 Meals- 2016=177,756 Meals- 2017=149,896 Meals- 2018= 141, 379 Meals3) Grab ‘n Go snack carts at Recreation Centers- The goal of the “Grab ‘n Go” carts is to offer healthy snacks in a destigmatized way to kids from food insecure households, many who rely on free lunch at school and snacks and dinner in City-owned Recreation Centers- 20,000 KIND bars were consumed, donated by 412 Food Rescue4) Federal Furlough Emergency ResponseAs a response to SNAP eligible individuals and families who experienced food shortages as a result of the 35 day federal government shutdown in late 2018/early 2019, the City partnered with Greater Pittsburgh Community Food Bank to coordinate emergency food pop up centers- 412 Food Rescue Pop Up at West Penn Rec Center  - 16 families served  - 120 lbs produce  - 300 lbs non perishables- Greater Pittsburgh Community Food Bank Convention Center Pop Up  - 80+ families served5) Breakfast Poster Competition- Goal: Celebrating National School Breakfast Week, recognizing the importance of a nutritious breakfast for all children and youth- Theme: A Nutritious Breakfast Fuels Me Up!- All 54 PPS schools participated- About 150 submissions were received, 9 total winners grades K-12- Partners: Share Our Strength, National League of Cities, Greater Pittsburgh Community Food Bank, Pittsburgh Public Schools, Allegheny County Health Department-LiveWell Allegheny, Allies for Children, City of Pittsburgh Art Commission, Adagio Health6) Inclusive InnovationThe City partnered with the Pittsburgh Food Policy Council and All for All to hire nine Minority/Women/Immigrant-owned and operated businesses to cater lunch and dinner for the Inclusive Innovation Summit, which attracted over 1,000 attendees, engaged over 300 partners and resulted in larger wedding and catering orders from guests who tried their food and beverages for the first time. The businesses were:- Casa Brasil, Everyday Café, MiEmpanada, Hello Neighbor-Syrian Cookies, Mr. Bulgogi, Nellie’s Sandwiches, Wigle Whiskey, Bea Taco Town, FreshFest7) Food Donations to 412 Food Rescue from Summer Food Program- 2017 = 883 Meals- 2018 = 1,190 Meals- Total = 2,073 Meals8) Volunteering with Greater Pittsburgh Community Food Bank- Starting June 2018-August 2018, City staff and interns will volunteer with Greater Pittsburgh Community Food Bank at two City operated Summer Food sites to mentor and engage 50+ youth in fun activities to encourage more participation in the Summer Food program  - Carnegie Library, Woods Run  - III Rivers Manor9) Urban Agriculture- In 2015, the Urban Agriculture Zoning Code was updated to make it easier for residents to be self-sustainable by raising crops, chickens, bees, and miniature goats in the City.- In 2016, the Adopt-A-Lot program was launched allowing residents to access City land for food, flower, or rain gardens- To date, 152 lots have been adopted, making a total of 56 projects; 18 projects (66 lots) are for food gardens.- This has saved the city over a quarter million dollars in maintenance over 3 years ($265,000)10) Farmers MarketsPittsburgh operates 8 markets and is lucky to have a farmers market every day of the week except Saturday, with two on Fridays and Sundays!As part of the study “ Strengthening Pittsburgh’s Farmers Markets,” the City created a network, and convened market managers from across the region to network, share ideas, best practices and resources in an effort to support the food system from its base of farmers. Direct sales are a farmer’s best return on their product and our goal is to strengthen the market system as a whole.- In 2018 we had 67 vendors across all our markets-  This year we have 84 vendors- In partnership with Just Harvest, City Farmers Markets accept SNAP and WIC benefits, and for every $5 spent on produce, $2 are awarded for SNAP holders- In partnership with the Allegheny County Department of Human Services, Senior residents at our 13 Senior Centers are given vouchers totaling $20 to purchase fresh produce- The City has more than 35 markets listed on the Pittsburgh Regional Farmers Market Network map.11) Farmer + Chef Match-ups- DCP and SPC and Sustainable Pittsburgh held three speed dating type events for farmers and chefs to connect and do business. - Over 200 total attendees representing 120 food businesses including farms, value-added food producers, chefs, and retail establishments.12) Community Supported Agriculture (CSA)- The city is in its 3rd year hosting Dillner Family Farm's Community Supported Agriculture shares in City Planning with more than 50 employees participating, providing fresh produce to our employees and directly supporting a local farm.13) Signing the Milan Urban Food Policy Pact , an effort dedicated to the creation of just and sustainable urban food systems.- The Milan Urban Food Policy Pact addresses the opportunities cities have to contribute to food security and sustainable development through urban agriculture and by developing food systems based on the principles of sustainability and social justice. | 20/6/2019 08:47:08 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Thursday, June 20, 2019 | Celebration of City Food Initiatives and Summer Food Kick-Off FestivalTime: 11:00 A.M.Location: Allegheny Commons Park, W. North Avenue and Palo Alto Street, North SideLunch &amp; Learn With City Of Pittsburgh InternsTime: 12:00 P.M.Location: Mayor's Conference Room, City-County BuildingHousing Authority Of The City Of Pittsburgh Open House For East End UnitsTime: 2:00 P.M.Location: 6449 Centre Avenue, East Liberty | 20/6/2019 09:15:47 |
| Statement by Mayor William Peduto and URA Board on Leadership Changes | PITTSBURGH, PA (June 20, 2019) Today, the Urban Redevelopment Authority Board of Directors and Mayor William Peduto announced that Executive Director Robert Rubinstein will step down as head of the URA on July 31, 2019.“For more than 30 years, Robert worked to support housing and economic development at the URA. Robert has played a critical role managing the City's large scale development projects, including internationally-recognized Brownfield redevelopment and helping to shift the focus of the URA toward affordable housing and inclusive, equitable development. Over the next few months, a Search Committee comprised of Sam Williamson, Dan Gilman, Janera Solomon, Lashawn Burton-Faulk and Grant Oliphant will be conducting a national search to find a new Executive Director. During this transition period, it is our priority to find the best individual to lead, while still maintaining a stable and effective organization. As such, we have named Diamonte Walker to assume the rule of Interim Deputy Director of the URA. Diamonte is currently serving as Director of Performance &amp; Compliance at the URA, where’s she’s made enormous strides working to increase opportunities for business growth and development to minority and female business owners in the city. We will also name an Interim Director prior to Robert’s departure. We are deeply grateful for Robert’s leadership, and for his dedicated service and contributions to the city of Pittsburgh. As we look toward the future, we are excited to continue to expand the URA's commitment to equitable development and to forging a city for all.”Contact: Sam Williamson, swilliamson@seiu32bj.org or (412) 607-8145‬ | 20/6/2019 08:40:49 |
| Planning Director Gastil Taking New Job Opportunity at Carnegie Mellon University | PITTSBURGH, PA (June 21, 2019) City Planning Director Raymond W. Gastil has been appointed David Lewis Director of Urban Design and Regional Engagement in the School of Architecture at Carnegie Mellon University. He will direct the Remaking Cities Institute and will teach architecture and urban design.  Gastil succeeds Donald Carter who will remain a Senior Research Fellow. His new position begins September 1, 2019. “I am grateful to have had the opportunity to contribute to Pittsburgh’s future as City Planning Director, working with remarkably talented and committed colleagues in partnership with Pittsburgh’s communities. I look forward to being able to continue to contribute in the new position,” Gastil said. Gastil has served as Director of City Planning for the City of Pittsburgh since 2014. In that role  his leadership and contributions have included: - Reestablishing the City’s partnership with communities in neighborhood planning, including a completed plan in the Uptown/West Oakland EcoInnovation District, and plans nearing completion in Homewood, Manchester-Chateau, and Hazelwood, and plans beginning in Oakland and the Hill District.   - Key waterfront initiatives including the Riverfront Zoning ordinance, which established performance-based incentives for responsible growth along the 35 miles of Pittsburgh’s riverfronts.   - Major open space initiatives including programs to facilitate urban farming, preserve open space, and planning for parks, including the task force for the future of Hays Woods.   - Arts initiatives including the public art projects in parks, intersections, and on buildings in public-private partnerships. Gastil also contributed to the ongoing planning and design review of major projects and the public realm, from the Produce Terminal/Smallman Street to the Hazelwood Green Master Plan.   - The Department of City Planning incorporating the city’s sustainability and resilience team, building the work of the City’s Resilience Strategy and P4 principles into guidelines, code, and ongoing work for neighborhood and citywide planning. Gastil also worked closely on Mayor Peduto’s OnePGH plan.   “Ray’s time here in Pittsburgh has coincided with a time of major redevelopment around Pittsburgh, as we changed from a city managing decline to one managing growth. That presented us with both opportunities and challenges, and Ray was the perfect person to help guide us through that transition,” Mayor William Peduto said. “I am happy he is staying in Pittsburgh and we will continue to work together closely in his new role.” The City will perform a national search to seek a new Planning Director. Before joining the Peduto Administration Gastil held similar positions in Seattle and in the Manhattan Office of the New York City Department of City Planning. He was the founding Executive Director of the Van Alen Institute in New York City from 1995 to 2004.  Gastil has taught architecture and urban design at Pennsylvania State University and at the University of California, Berkeley, and has lectured and published widely on urban design, urban development, and waterfronts. Gastil is a graduate of Yale University with a Master of Architecture from Princeton University. About the Remaking Cities Institute: The Remaking Cities Institute (RCI) was formed in 2006 in response to the demand for a greater link between academic work and ongoing community initiatives undertaken by firms, government agencies and community groups. The RCI has three missions: international research in urbanism; education in urbanism; and Pittsburgh regional redevelopment impact through sponsored research projects. Of particular concern and focus are the urban issues confronting rapidly growing cities in the developing world and cities in transition or decline in the post-industrial developed world. About Carnegie Mellon University: Carnegie Mellon is a private, internationally ranked research university with programs in areas ranging from science, technology and business, to public policy, the humanities and the arts. More than 13,000 students in the university's seven schools and colleges benefit from a small student-to-faculty ratio and an education characterized by its focus on creating and implementing solutions for real problems, interdisciplinary collaboration and innovation. | 21/6/2019 09:54:33 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Friday, June 21, 2019 | Speaking At World Refugee DayTime: 12:00 P.M.Location: Market Square, Central Business DistrictWeekly Scheduling MeetingTime: 1:30 P.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County BuildingPresenting Mayor Sophie Masloff Employee Of The Month AwardTime: 3:00 P.M.Location: Mayor's Conference Room, City-County BuildingWorld Peace &amp; Prayer DayTime: 4:00 P.M.Location: Andy Warhol Bridge, Central Business DistrictUrban Garden FactoryTime: 7:00 P.M.Location: The Mattress Factory, Central North Side | 21/6/2019 08:27:11 |
| Steel City World Cup Returns To Pittsburgh | Pittsburgh (June 21, 2019) -- The Steel City World Cup, a soccer tournament celebrating Pittsburgh’s vibrant ethnic and cultural communities, returns June 22 through June 29.24 soccer teams represent the region’s vibrant ethnic and cultural communitiesFinals Night slated for Highmark StadiumThe soccer tournament will host 24 teams representing countries from around the world, including Nigeria, China, Italy, Spain, India, Bhutan, Turkey, USA, Germany, and Argentina. Round-robin group play will take place on Saturday, June 22nd at the Montour Junction Sports Complex in Coraopolis. The top 16 teams from the group stage will qualify for the single elimination stage the following day, June 23rd, which will include the Rounds of 16, 8, and 4.  In total, over 60 games will be played across the first two days to narrow the field down to two final teams.The Steel City World Cup is organized and hosted by PUMP, Open Field, Pittsburgh Riverhounds S.C., and Welcoming Pittsburgh (an initiative of the Office of Mayor William Peduto).“From long-time Pittsburgh residents to our newest friends and neighbors, the Steel City World Cup is a great opportunity to share cultures and traditions and foster cross-cultural relationships and understanding on and off the soccer field,” says Brian Magee, CEO, PUMP.On June 29, Finals Night will be held at Highmark Stadium as part of the Riverhounds “Celebration of Cultures” event. The final Steel City World Cup match will take place after the Riverhounds take on Birmingham Legion FC. A single ticket is good for admission to the Riverhounds match and the Steel City World Cup finals. Tickets can be purchased at SteelCityWorldCup.com/finals.“We are proud to co-host an event that brings people of all ethnicities together. Soccer is a beautiful game, shared and loved by people of many cultures. We are excited to be a part of an event that celebrates these different cultures we have here in Pittsburgh." Kevin Johnston, General Manager, Pittsburgh Riverhounds S.C.A portion of the net proceeds from the Steel City World Cup will be donated to Open Field (formerly CameroonFDP), a nonprofit with a mission to improve the lives and futures of youth through sport. Since 2010, Open Field’s global team has engaged more than 3,000 youth in educational soccer programming, mentoring relationships, travel abroad experiences, and cultural exchange in Cameroon, Africa and Pittsburgh, PA. Their innovative approach to Sport for Good empowers youth to be leaders in their community and gain skills to help them succeed on and off the field."Welcoming Pittsburgh is proud to be partnering with PUMP, Open Field, and the Pittsburgh Riverhounds for the third Steel City World Cup,” says Feyisola Alabi, Special Initiatives Manager, Welcoming Pittsburgh. “This event is sure to not only be an impressive tournament but also a true showcase of the diversity of people who call our region home.”The Steel City World Cup presenting sponsor is BNY Mellon. Event sponsors also include the Pittsburgh Riverhounds and Friends of Pittsburgh Professional Soccer.Questions may be directed to Brian Magee at brian@pump.org or 412-338-2133 ext. 10. More information, full schedule, and tickets to the finals night: www.steelcityworldcup.com | 21/6/2019 12:50:07 |
| Media Advisory: Mayor William Peduto to Hold Press Conference Celebrating 100th Anniversary of Pennsylvania Approving 19th Amendment/Women's Suffrage | Media AdvisoryPITTSBURGH, PA (June 23, 2019) Mayor William Peduto will hold a press conference tomorrow morning to celebrate the 100th Anniversary of Pennsylvania approving 19th Amendment/Women’s Suffrage. WHO: Mayor William Peduto Gender Equity Commission Members Women’s Suffrage Committee Members WHERE: Mayor’s Conference Room, 414 Grant St. WHEN: 10:00 A.M., Monday, June 24, 2019 | 23/6/2019 19:08:11 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Monday, June 24, 2019 | Press Conference Celebrating The 100th Pennsylvania's Ratification Of The 19th Amendment For Women's SuffrageTime: 10:00 A.M.Location: Mayor's Conference Room, City-County BuildingAllvision Press Conference On Strip District ParkingTime: 11:00 A.M.Location: Pennsylvania Market, The Strip DistrictArgo AI &amp; Carnegie Mellon University Press EventTime: 12:00 P.M.Location: Gates &amp; Hillman Center - Carnegie Mellon University, Squirrel Hill NorthPittsburgh Bureau Of Police Promotion CeremonyTime: 2:00 P.M.Location: Council Chamber, City-County BuildingSigning Memorandum Of Understanding On Climate Action Between Pittsburgh &amp; The Cit If Aarhus With Ambassador Of Denmark To The United States Lone Dencker WisborgTime: 4:00 P.M.Location: Mayor's Conference Room, City-County Building | 24/6/2019 08:50:57 |
| Statement by Mayor William Peduto on UPMC-Highmark Agreement | PITTSBURGH, PA (June 24, 2019) Mayor William Peduto released the following statement on the 10-year agreement announced today between Highmark and UPMC: “This is great day for health care in Western Pennsylvania. We have been in discussions with Highmark and UPMC for five years, and it has long been critical for those talks to be continuous, constructive and respectful. We will continue to mediate in that manner whenever necessary.  This agreement allows us to enter a new chapter, and create a potential for new partnerships, where we can work together to create a global center of medicine that will be unparalleled in a region our size.” | 24/6/2019 15:17:45 |
| City Working on Upgrades to Mount Washington Infrastructure and Landscaping | UPDATE, JUNE 25, 2019:Please note that observation decks along Grandview Avenue remain open. The elevated platforms mentioned in the press release below are sidewalks cantilevered over the hillside adjacent to the observation decks.DOMI would like to remind motorists to observe the 25 miles per hour speed limit on the avenue – exceeding the speed limit is dangerous, particularly to pedestrians in the area.PITTSBURGH, PA (June 24, 2019) Work is underway to make portions of Grandview Avenue in Mount Washington safe for visitors, and to clean up vegetation and debris along the popular corridor. The Department of Mobility and Infrastructure (DOMI) has found it necessary to close portions of elevated sidewalk platforms along Grandview to protect public safety. The department is commissioning engineering designs for their restoration, which is expected to start in August and be completed by November.  Reconstruction is expected to cost between $750,000 and $1 million.  The Grandview Avenue platforms, stretching from Ulysses Street to Shiloh Street, were constructed in the 1960s and last rehabilitated in the late 1980s.  In 2017, one section of elevated sidewalk (“Platform 7”) between Maple Terrace and Shiloh Street experienced a failure and was replaced by a relocated on-grade sidewalk.   In early April, the elevated sidewalk between Kearsarge Street and Maple Terrace (“Platform 5”) experienced a failure of one of the precast concrete sidewalk slabs, requiring closure of this platform.  DOMI ordered inspection of the platforms and found similar levels of deterioration of the precast concrete sidewalk slabs located across from Ulysses Street (“Platform 1”) and Bertha Street (“Platform 3”) necessitating the closure of these platforms in order to ensure public safety. The remaining platforms and overlooks were found to be in satisfactory condition.  Engineering design is underway for Platform 5 with reconstruction anticipated to commence in August. Engineering design for the restoration of Platforms 1 and 3 will follow with reconstruction continuing sequentially and completed prior to Thanksgiving.  In the meantime the Department of Public Works is working to address other needs in the corridor. DPW is redoubling efforts to street sweep Grandview and empty litter cans. Crews are also increasing ongoing mowing and weeding in the area. Its Forestry Division is attempting to trim trees and vegetation where possible, but due to the Mount Washington hillside’s long history of landslides that work is limited. Ornamental fencing along the avenue also needs to be addressed, including structural repairs, sanding and repainting, and possible replacement of some sections.  All work by DOMI and DPW will be performed in consultation with the community and District 2 Councilwoman Theresa Kail-Smith. “I want to thank the Peduto administration, Chief of Staff Dan Gilman and the directors of DPW and DOMI for their attention to this issue. Grandview Avenue has been suffering from disinvestment for more than a decade, and comprehensive plans are necessary to address its many needs,” Councilwoman Kail-Smith said. | 24/6/2019 15:22:28 |
| City of Pittsburgh to Launch Neighborhood Planning Process for Oakland | PITTSBURGH, PA (June 24, 2019) The City of Pittsburgh is pleased to announce that it and its partner agencies will begin working with the Oakland community this year to create a 10-year plan with a shared vision for Oakland’s future and the projects and programs necessary to make that vision a reality. Once adopted by the Planning Commission, the Oakland Plan will become City policy and guide public and private investments in the area. New land use regulations, transportation and infrastructure improvements, and public programs may also be recommended by the plan.Why Oakland?Oakland is known for its rich mix of cultural and academic institutions, businesses, and strong residential communities. In the last decade, the area has seen a sharp increase in development activity and investment, particularly on Fifth and Forbes Avenues. UPMC, the University of Pittsburgh, Carlow University, and private developers are all proposing significant building projects over the next 10 years. Discussions with community leaders have made it clear that Oakland needs a shared plan to fully benefit from the changes taking place while increasing access to jobs and affordable housing. The Oakland Plan will also implement the City’s adopted goals from the Climate Action Plan, particularly those related to sustainability, energy efficiency, and livability.Upcoming EventsThe Oakland Plan Steering Committee will have its first meeting in October of 2019 and many events are being planned for the summer so that community members can engage with the topics before the planning work begins.Fifth/Forbes Urban Design Workshop- What: Open house format event where you can learn about urban design and how buildings can improve the pedestrian experience on Fifth and Forbes Avenues, hear more about the Oakland Plan process, and provide input to shape a regulatory tool (Interim Planning Overlay District) being considered to improve building design along these streets. Developers currently proposing projects will also attend and speak with attendees about their projects.- When and Where: Thursday, June 27th. Two identical sessions will take place, a daytime session from 10 a.m. to 1 p.m. and a 5-8 p.m. evening session. The workshop will be held at Soldiers and Sailors Memorial Hall and Museum (4141 Fifth Ave). This is a fully accessible venue.- Details: Snacks and refreshments will be provided. Interpreters can be provided if requested at least one week prior to the event. A ramp and accessible entrance is located on the University Place side of the building.Summer Education Series- What: Informational sessions with City and non-profit experts on topics that will be covered in the neighborhood planning process, such as transportation and parking, stormwater, and energy.- When and Where: Multiple evening sessions in July and August. Learn more at the Oakland Plan website.- Details: Dinners will be provided. Interpreters can be provided if requested at least one week prior to each event.How Can I Learn More?The central place for project information is online at http://www.pittsburghpa.gov/dcp/oakland. Social media will include Facebook, Next Door, Twitter, and Instagram. As they are developed, proposals will be shared with the public online and in person through public events.About the Neighborhood Planning ProgramPittsburgh can meet its goals to achieve a more sustainable and equitable future through the collective action of our neighborhoods. Community input informed the creation of citywide goals that are now being translated into action through a new generation of neighborhood plans.Pittsburgh’s neighborhood plans focus on four topics areas:- Community: Meeting the needs of the residents, employees, students, and stakeholders.- Development: Maximizing the benefits of new development for the community.- Mobility: Making it easier, safer, and healthier for people to get around.- Infrastructure: Nourishing neighborhoods through new energy, stormwater, and open space systems.The City’s neighborhood planning process offers many opportunities for active involvement including through a Steering Committee that includes representatives from a broad range of community interests, Action Teams that develop projects and programs for specific topics, community events such as block parties, workshops, and open houses that allow more casual involvement throughout the planning process. The project website and social media accounts will provide online opportunities to learn and provide input.Staff from the Department of City Planning manage the overall planning process and support planning partners who lead discussions by topic. Partners include the Department of Mobility and Infrastructure, Port Authority of Allegheny County, Urban Redevelopment Authority, Green Building Alliance, and Pittsburgh Water and Sewer Authority, among others. Neighborhoods that have already undergone City-led planning processes include Uptown, Homewood, Manchester-Chateau, and Hazelwood.Contacts:Derek Dauphin, Project Manager, Department of City PlanningDerek.Dauphin@pittsburghpa.govAndrew Dash, Assistant Director, Department of City PlanningAndrew.Dash@pittsburghpa.gov | 24/6/2019 11:13:44 |
| Pittsburgh and Danish City of Aarhus Sign Clean Energy Agreement | PITTSBURGH, PA (June 24, 2019) Mayor William Peduto and Danish Ambassador Lone Dencker Wisborg today signed a partnership agreement between Pittsburgh and Aarhus, Denmark, on their joint work to advance energy and climate objectives. Aarhus, the second-largest city in Denmark, is a fellow post-industrial city with a long track record of implementing clean energy standards, and can assist Pittsburgh on achieving similar goals. In the last decade Aarhus has cut its carbon emissions in half, which is something that Pittsburgh plans to accomplish by 2030. Aarhus has accomplished the emissions cut through efforts such as adopting district energy, moving to cleaner transportation methods, using off-site wind power and so on. Officials from the City and the University of Pittsburgh have already been working with the Danish government and others on energy collaboration matters, and today Mayor Peduto and Ambassador Wisborg signed a Memorandum of Understanding on further work between the two cities. As the MOU states: The City of Aarhus and the City of Pittsburgh are equal in population size and share a history as industrial cities. Today, both cities have a large share of manufacturing jobs while simultaneously they serve as higher education hubs attracting a young and educated workforce and creating an innovative business environment. Aarhus and Pittsburgh are both growing and aiming to accommodate this development by creating healthy and liveable cities and transforming old industrial areas to attractive urban spaces.Recognizing the Parties’ mutual interest in taking transformational actions to achieve their 2030 carbon reduction targets and create attractive, resilient, and liveable cities of the future; Recognizing the importance of finding efficient and lasting methods to manage decarbonisation that are compatible with the need for job creation, economic growth, and access to affordable energy, housing and transportation options . . . The Parties believe that an ongoing and robust exchange of information and experience regarding climate action and urban solutions will help the Parties in successfully achieving the two cities’ ambitious 2030 carbon reduction targets.A copy of the MOU, which sets out the objectives of the partnership between the two cities, is available here. Ambassador Wisborg and other Danish officials are in Pittsburgh this week for the annual conference of the International District Energy Association at the David L. Lawrence Convention Center. Tomorrow at the conference, Allegheny County and the City of Pittsburgh will be recognized by the United Nations Environment District Energy in Cities Initiative for their collaboration, vision and commitment to modernizing local energy infrastructure through district energy microgrids. The U.S. Department of Energy signed a first-of-its-kind Memorandum of Understanding with the City of Pittsburgh on developing a district energy microgrid system in 2015. One of the world’s first district energy systems was the Bellefield Boiler Plant in Oakland, built in 1907 to provide steam heat for the Carnegie Museum. Once fueled by coal, it turned over completely to natural gas in 2009. | 24/6/2019 15:50:51 |
| Duquesne Heights Streets to Close for Weed Removal | PITTSBURGH, PA (June 25, 2019) The City of Pittsburgh Department of Public Works advises that Shaler Street, in Duquesne Heights, will be closed on Wednesday, June 26, 2019 from 8:30 a.m. - 1:30 p.m. from Minnotte Square to Wells Street, for routine weed cutting.Also, Greenleaf Street in Duquesne Heights will be closed on Thursday, June 27, 2019 from 8:30 a.m. - 1:30 p.m. from Fingal Street to S. Main Street, for routine weed cutting.Those seeking additional information may contact John McClory, Supervisor in the 5th Division, at 412-287-0812. | 25/6/2019 08:53:18 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Tuesday, June 25, 2019 | 50th Anniversary of Stonewall Riots Press Conference with Council President Bruce Kraus and Councilperson Erika StrassburgerTime: 9:00 A.M.Location: City-County Building PorticoMeeting with James BauerleTime: 10:00 A.M.Location: Mayor's Conference Room, City-County BuildingSpeaking at IDEA 2019 VIP Recognition and Awards LuncheonTime: 12:00 P.M.Location: David L. Lawrence Convention Center, Central Business District | 25/6/2019 11:34:11 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Wednesday, June 26, 2019 | PITTSBURGH, PA (June 26, 2019) Mayor William Peduto is in Paris today for the annual board meeting of the Global Covenant of Mayors for Climate &amp; Energy, a global organization of more than 9,000 local governments fighting climate change. The Mayor is the Covenant’s board member from the United States. Organizers are paying for the Mayor’s travel and no city tax dollars are being spent. Cities represent half of the world’s population and consume two-thirds of the world’s energy, so by banding together they can make significant differences to the Earth’s climate, even in the absence of national leadership on the matter. The Global Covenant describes its work this way:GCoM is the largest global alliance for city climate leadership, built upon the commitment of over 9,000 cities and local governments. These cities hail from 6 continents and 132 countries. In total, they represent more than 800 million people. By 2030, Global Covenant cities and local governments could collectively reduce 1.3 billion tons of CO2 emissions per year. That’s the equivalent of taking 276 million cars off the road.The Covenant’s board meets today and tomorrow. The Mayor returns to Pittsburgh Friday. Mayor William Peduto’s Public Schedule – Wednesday, June 26, 2019: Working session with Board co-chair Christiana Figueres, former Executive Secretary of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate ChangeTime: 1 p.m. Location: Hôtel de Ville, Paris Global Covenant of Mayors for Climate &amp; Energy Board Meeting with Christiana Figueres, former New York City Mayor and U.N. Secretary-General’s Special Envoy for Climate Action Michael Bloomberg, and European Commission Vice-President Maroš ŠefčovičTime: 4:30 p.m. Location: Hôtel de Ville, Paris | 26/6/2019 08:49:57 |
| Mayor William Peduto Proposes Plans to Expand Usage of Blue Recycling Bins | PITTSBURGH, PA (June 26, 2019) Seeking to improve the quality of recycling in Pittsburgh and to boost efforts to meet zero waste goals, Mayor William Peduto today announced plans to provide thousands more blue recycling bins to city residents in coming years. Recycling has been mandatory in Pittsburgh since 1991 and residents have long placed their recyclables in blue plastic bags. Unfortunately, such bags clog equipment at recycling facilities, create roadside blight, and degrade the quality of recyclables (which reduces their value and increases costs for the City). Blue containers under 35 gallons in size consolidate recycling into one container, making them more convenient for residents and the refuse workers who empty them.  Recycling bins are more than tools needed to easily participate in the City’s recycling program; they are invitations to join the City in its ambitious zero waste goals. “As the recycling industry and our climate continue to change, Pittsburgh needs to keep adapting to a stronger culture of waste reduction and material reuse. A strategic plan for purchasing and deploying blue recycling bins citywide will make that culture change more accessible, equitable and meaningful for all,” Mayor Peduto said. The Mayor is proposing adding $500,000 to the City’s 2020 budget to begin buying more bins for residents, followed by additional monies in future years to expand the usage of the bins citywide. The funding would be subject to approval by Pittsburgh City Council. Distribution plans for the bins have not yet been finalized. Residents will be alerted when new bins are available, likely beginning next year. Residents may also buy their own blue bins for usage at any time. Earlier this year City Council approved improvements to ordinances around waste and recycling forwarded by Councilperson Erika Strassburger, which included language on the blue bins.  Mayor Peduto is proposing phasing-in purchases of the bins over coming years, possibly with the assistance of grants and nonprofit support.  By delivering higher-quality recyclables the bins could generate more revenue for the city and other efficiencies for the Environmental Services bureau, which would offset bin costs. The City is launching a recycling education program to further improve the quality of recyclable materials, and decrease other waste sent to landfills. | 26/6/2019 14:20:17 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Thursday, June 27, 2019 | PITTSBURGH, PA (June 27, 2019) Mayor William Peduto is in Paris today for the annual board meeting of the Global Covenant of Mayors for Climate &amp; Energy, a global organization of more than 9,000 local governments fighting climate change. The Mayor is the Covenant’s board member from the United States. Organizers are paying for the Mayor’s travel and no city tax dollars are being spent. Cities represent half of the world’s population and consume two-thirds of the world’s energy, so by banding together they can make significant differences to the Earth’s climate, even in the absence of national leadership on the matter. The Global Covenant describes its work this way:GCoM is the largest global alliance for city climate leadership, built upon the commitment of over 9,000 cities and local governments. These cities hail from 6 continents and 132 countries. In total, they represent more than 800 million people. By 2030, Global Covenant cities and local governments could collectively reduce 1.3 billion tons of CO2 emissions per year. That’s the equivalent of taking 276 million cars off the road.The Covenant’s board met yesterday and is meeting again today. The Mayor returns to Pittsburgh Friday. Mayor William Peduto’s Public Schedule – Thursday, June 27, 2019: Meeting of Global Covenant MayorsTime: 10 a.m. Location: Bloomberg Paris offices Board session with Christiana Figueres, former Executive Secretary of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, former New York City Mayor and U.N. Secretary-General’s Special Envoy for Climate Action Michael Bloomberg, and European Commission Vice-President Maroš ŠefčovičTime: 4:30 p.m. Location: Hôtel de Ville, Paris Meeting on GCoM Key PrioritiesTime: 5 p.m. Location: Hôtel de Ville, Paris Meeting on 2019 Climate Events with Paris Mayor Anne Hidalgo; Ms Ami Koo, Seoul Mayors Forum; and Mayor Mohamed Sefiani ,UCLG World Congress, DurbanTime: 5:30 p.m. Location: Hôtel de Ville, Paris Closing remarks by European Commission Vice-President Maroš ŠefčovičTime: 6 p.m. Location: Hôtel de Ville, Paris | 27/6/2019 09:21:11 |
| City Working with National and Local Partners to Support Foreign-Born Entrepreneurs in Pittsburgh | PITTSBURGH, PA (June 27, 2019) The City of Pittsburgh is committing to work with the National League of Cities, the Ewing Marion Kauffman Foundation and Schmidt Futures to leverage foreign-born, high-growth entrepreneurs to improve the pipeline of new businesses within the City of Pittsburgh.Immigrant entrepreneurs and businesses support a substantial portion of American job creation. Pittsburgh is home of a vibrant entrepreneurial ecosystem where nationally ranked universities powerhouses for innovation, local incubators and accelerators, and economic development organizations work together to empower local entrepreneurs.Over the next year, a cross departmental team from the City of Pittsburgh will work with leaders in the public, private, and university sectors to explore the possibility of creating a Global Entrepreneurs in Residence program here in Pittsburgh, leveraging the existing work from our community partners, and accelerating opportunities for foreign-born entrepreneurs to stay in the city.This initiative ties directly into the Welcoming Pittsburgh plan that aims to make Pittsburgh a more welcoming city in which to live, work, and play.Contact:Annia AlemanSenior Civic Innovation Specialist Innovation &amp; Performance \| City of Pittsburgh 412.255.2152annia.aleman@pittsburghpa.gov | 27/6/2019 14:31:26 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Friday, June 28, 2019 | PITTSBURGH, PA (June 26, 2019) Mayor William Peduto returns today from Paris, where he was attending the annual board meeting of the Global Covenant of Mayors for Climate &amp; Energy, a global organization of more than 9,000 local governments fighting climate change. The Mayor is the Covenant’s board member from the United States. Organizers paid for the Mayor’s travel and no city tax dollars are being spent. Mayor William Peduto’s Public Schedule – Friday, June 28, 2019: Flight to PittsburghTime: 2 p.m. | 28/6/2019 08:55:28 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Monday, July 1, 2019 | Meeting With Dr. Darryl CanadyTime: 11:00 A.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County BuildingPublic Safety Swearing-In Ceremony For Canine OfficersTime: 12:00 P.M.Location: Law Enforcement Officers Memorial, North ShoreMeeting With Allegheny County Executive Rich FitzgeraldTime: 1:30 P.M.Location: Mayor's Conference Room, City-County Building | 1/7/2019 08:30:49 |
| City Offices and Citiparks Facilities Closed, Refuse Collection Postponed For Independence Day | PITTSBURGH, PA (July 1, 2019) The City of Pittsburgh offices and Healthy Active Living Centers will be closed on Thursday, July 4, 2019, in observance of Independence Day. City outdoor pools will open at 1:00 p.m. on Independence Day with early closure of 5:45 p.m. Department of Public Works advises that refuse, bulk waste or recycling collection on Thursday, July 4 will be delayed one day.  If your scheduled day of collection is Thursday, July 4, you will be serviced on Friday, July 5. If your collection day is Friday, July 5, you will be serviced on Saturday, July 6.    CitiParks will have the following adjusted schedule in observance of Independence Day:  OUTDOOR SWIMMING POOLS- All outdoor pools will open at 1 p.m. and close at 5:45 p.m.   - Special Note:  The Schenley Park Pool is closed for maintenance   - Swim Team Practice and Swim Lessons will not be affected   - Swim Team Practice begins at Noon   - Swim Lessons begin at 11 a.m.   SPRAY PARKS- All spray parks will open at 10 a.m. and close at 6 p.m., with the exception of East Hills which is scheduled to be open Noon to 6:00 p.m.   HEALTHY ACTIVE LIVING CENTERS (Senior Centers)- Closed July 4th    RECREATION CENTERS- Closed July 4th   - No Citicamp on July 4th   MELLON TENNIS BUBBLE- Closed July 4th    ROVING ART CART- The Roving Art Cart will not be out on July 4th   SUMMER FOOD SERVICE PROGRAM- There will be no Summer Food Service Program Meals on July 4th | 1/7/2019 10:29:51 |
|  | Interview For "Tomorrow's World Today" PodcastTime: 11:45 A.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County BuildingPhone Call With Grand Rapids Mayor Rosalynn BlissTime: 1:00 P.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County BuildingInterview With Lynne Hayes-FreelandTime: 1:30 P.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County BuildingMeeting With the University Of Pittsburgh School of Medicine's Emily BrandtTime: 2:00 P.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County BuildingWeekly Scheduling MeetingTime: 4:30 P.M.Location: Mayor's Conference Room, City-County BuildingPittsburgh Bureau Of Police Graduation CeremonyTime: 7:00 P.M.Location: CCAC Foerster Student Center - Monument Hill, Allegheny WestInterview With AT&amp;T Sports Network On Pirates Charities &amp; City Of Pittsburgh PartnershipsTime: 8:30 P.M.Location: PNC Park, North Shore | 2/7/2019 09:47:56 |
| City of Pittsburgh Announces Partnership with Climate Mayors EV Purchasing Collaborative | HONOLULU, HI (July 2, 2019) Last week at the second-annual Climate Mayors Summit in Honolulu, Hawaii, Climate Mayors Electric Vehicle Purchasing Collaborative (“the Collaborative”) — with which the City of Pittsburgh is partnering to electrify its city fleet — announced that 127 cities and 15 counties from across 38 states, including the District of Columbia, have joined the Collaborative and committed to purchasing more than 2100 electric vehicles (EVs) by the end of 2020. The City of Pittsburgh has committed to a fossil fuel free fleet by 2030 — helping to improve citywide air quality and public health. As of July, 2019, the City already owns and operates 19 fully electric vehicles.By transitioning to EVs, cities like Pittsburgh are leading by example: helping to cut greenhouse gas emissions that are warming the planet, saving taxpayer money, improving public health, and reducing our nation’s dependency on oil. With 127 cities committing to the Collaborative by the end of 2020, the EV commitments have the potential to:- Cut gas usage by up to 1 million gallons each year;- Transition to 25 million electric miles driven each year; and- Add more than $75 million in purchasing power to the electric vehicle marketAs part of Climate Mayors’ commitment to grow participation and offerings in the Collaborative, its procurement partner, Sourcewell, will be releasing a new national solicitation for electric school buses by the end of the year, enabling all electric school bus manufacturers to participate and become readily available for any public school system to access at competitive prices. The Collaborative will continue to expand in the future, including to transit buses and other vehicle types. With more than 470,000 school buses and 70,000 transit buses operating across the country, transitioning to electric school buses creates a big opportunity to make it easier for school children and across the U.S. to travel on a zero-emission bus.“The clean transportation revolution is not a distant vision for the far-off future — it’s a reality hitting the streets of Los Angeles and cities around the world,” said Climate Mayors’ Founder and Co-Chair Eric Garcetti. “By expanding this innovative platform with zero-emission school buses and thousands of new commitments for electric vehicles, Climate Mayors are sending a powerful message to the global car market: if you build electric vehicles, we will buy them.”“By committing to a fossil fuel free fleet by 2030, the City of Pittsburgh is tackling the transportation sector, a major contributor to poor air quality and carbon emissions, to improve the health of its residents and employees. We’re also powering the City’s electric vehicles with solar energy generated at our Second Avenue parking lot, and working to break down barriers for EV adoption for all of our residents by simplifying and expanding charging availability,” said Mayor William Peduto.   “The electrification of Honolulu’s city and bus fleets will go a long way in making our island more sustainable and resilient in the face of the current climate crisis,” said Honolulu Mayor Kirk Caldwell. “However, it will also improve the natural environment for our residents and visitors by eliminating smoky exhaust fumes and noise pollution from our communities. By coming together under one umbrella with this EV Collaborative, mayors across the country are increasing the purchasing power of taxpayers while also showing love for Mother Nature.”“Cities across the country are demonstrating critical leadership by committing to transition their fleets to electrification - reducing our dependence on oil, while also improving our nation’s health, and our economic and national security,” said Ben Prochazka, Vice President of the Electrification Coalition. “We hope other mayors around the country will see this as a call to action and plug their fleets into the Climate Mayors EV Purchasing Collaborative.”In agreeing to purchase electric vehicles through the Collaborative, public agencies gain access to competitively solicited EVs and charging infrastructure, as well as innovative leasing options that allow cities to reduce EV costs by accessing state and federal tax credits. The Collaborative also provides support with analysis and best practices for fleet electrification to cities as they consider switching to electric.With support from Bloomberg Philanthropies, the Collaborative is working with the American Cities Climate Challenge, a group of 25 of the largest U.S. cities, including Pittsburgh, who are pursuing ambitious goals to cut emissions and fight climate change from the bottom-up. American Cities Climate Challenge cities represent about 700 vehicles of the total commitment.Launched in September 2018, the Collaborative is a partnership between Climate Mayors, the Electrification Coalition, and Sourcewell. The program works with cities and other public agencies to accelerate the electrification of public fleets. The Collaborative provides technical expertise to purchasers and a program that reduces the costs and barriers to electrifying fleets.###About Climate MayorsClimate Mayors, founded in 2014, is a diverse network of U.S. city leaders who have committed to fighting climate change. In response to the Trump administration’s withdrawal from the Paris Agreement, the network’s ranks swelled to more than 400 U.S. mayors from across the country who have committed to taking ambitious action to meet each of their cities’ current climate goals, while working together towards achieving our national Paris targets. Climate Mayors is founded and Chaired by Los Angeles Mayor Eric Garcetti, and Co-Chaired by Mayors Madeline Rogero (Knoxville), Sylvester Turner (Houston) and Marty Walsh (Boston).About the Electrification CoalitionThe Electrification Coalition (EC) is a nonpartisan, not-for-profit group of business leaders committed to promoting policies and actions that facilitate the acceleration of electric vehicle adoption on a mass scale in order to combat the economic, environmental and national security dangers caused by our nation’s dependence on oil. The EC works through several approaches to accelerate the adoption of electric vehicles including consumer education, fleet electrification, public-private partnerships, comprehensive EV accelerator communities, policy advocacy, and innovative program development. Since 2008, the EC has been developing leading best practices to help cities, states, and the private sector influence the adoption of EVs by consumers and fleets.About SourcewellSourcewell is a self-supporting government organization, partnering with education and government agencies throughout North America. They offer a cooperative purchasing program with over 300 awarded vendors on contract. On behalf of their 50,000 members, Sourcewell conducts competitive solicitations, awarding to the most responsive and responsible vendors. The result of this cooperative effort is a high-quality selection of nationally leveraged, competitively solicited contract solutions to help create efficiencies and meet the ever-challenging needs of current and future member agencies. | 2/7/2019 10:52:57 |
| Grant Street Reopens Downtown, On Time and On Budget | PITTSBURGH, PA (July 3, 2019) A section of Grant Street that was closed for two months for brick replacement reopened today, on schedule and on budget.The Department of Mobility and Infrastructure (DOMI) closed the outbound lanes of Grant Street between Seventh and Liberty avenues in May due to the deteriorating brickwork on the street, saying they would reopen July 3. The project – part of a multiyear reconstruction of the brick street – finished today on schedule, and crews this morning were removing traffic cones that had restricted vehicular traffic.A small section of the street will be repaved next week to smoothen the transition between brick and asphalt at the intersection with Liberty Avenue. That work is expected to occur at night and will have limited impact on motorists.The new brickwork was part of the City's $20 million in repaving projects budgeted this year. Another section of Grant Street is planned to be reconstructed next year, and DOMI is still considering which part.Photos: At top, Grant Street section completed; at bottom, Grant Street work in progress. Credit: City of Pittsburgh Department of Mobility and Infrastructure | 3/7/2019 09:59:01 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Wednesday, July 3, 2019 | No public schedule. | 3/7/2019 09:36:37 |
| Women's World Cup Watch Party at Schenley Plaza on Sunday | PITTSBURGH, PA (July 5, 2019) The City of Pittsburgh and the Pittsburgh Parks Conservancy will host a free watch party Sunday morning in Schenley Plaza for the FIFA Women’s World Cup final between the United States and the Netherlands. A large video screen will broadcast the game, which is scheduled to begin at 11 a.m. Sunday, July 7.  The event at the Oakland park is free of charge and the Parks Conservancy, Citiparks and the City’s Special Events Office are planning to provide soccer-related activities, games and crafts, food trucks, face painting, noise makers and American flags for fans of all ages. Please follow @citypgh and @pittsburghparks on Twitter for any updates. Photo: U.S. Soccer | 5/7/2019 10:07:56 |
| City of Pittsburgh Joins Nearly 100 Mayors and Cities to File Brief to U.S. Supreme Court In Support of LGBT Rights | PITTSBURGH, PA (July 5, 2019) The City of  Pittsburgh is proud to announce that it signed onto a friend-of-the-court brief in three key LGBT cases that will be heard at the Supreme Court next term. The brief includes nearly 100 mayors and municipalities around the U.S. encouraging the Supreme Court to rule in support of LGBT nondiscrimination protections in the workplace. The cases concern three plaintiffs: Gerald Lynn Bostock, who was fired from his job as a court child welfare services coordinator in Georgia because he is gay; Aimee Stephens, who was let go from her job at a funeral home in Michigan after she shared with her employer that she is a transgender woman; and Don Zarda, who was fired from his job in New York as a skydiving instructor for being gay. “No one should experience discrimination because of who they are or who they love. Our LGBT neighbors and community members make important contributions to our community, and they just want the same thing as every other resident: to raise a family, to make a decent living, and to feel accepted in the city they call home. As Mayor, it’s my responsibility to make sure all of my residents are treated with dignity, fairness, and respect. No form of discrimination has any place in the City of Pittsburgh, nor in the United States,” said Mayor William Peduto.  The brief states in part:“Local anti-discrimination laws promote the prosperity and vitality of American communities. Among other things, these laws enhance innovation and economic opportunities. For example, researchers have found that state-level non-discrimination acts barring sexual orientation and transgender status discrimination result in higher rates of innovation, as measured by patents and patent citations. Adopting specific protections against discrimination based on sexual orientation or transgender status has facilitated LGBT individuals’ participation in, and contribution to, their communities, enriching both the individual and the whole. And it has achieved that end with no real difficulties of implementation or administration, all while avoiding burdening taxpayer resources to remediate the harms of workplace discrimination against LGBT residents.” At the core of these cases is the question of whether Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, which prohibits employment discrimination based on sex, prohibits LGBTQ discrimination. A number of lower courts and federal agencies have already affirmed that it does. In addition, 30 states and more than 250 cities around the country have comprehensive laws in place ensuring nondiscrimination protections for LGBTQ people, including in employment. | 5/7/2019 11:01:02 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Friday, July 5, 2019 | No public schedule. | 5/7/2019 08:37:50 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Monday, July 8, 2019 | Meeting With Allegheny County Executive Rich Fitzgerald &amp; Duquesne University President Ken GormleyTime: 10:00 A.M.Location: Mayor's Conference Room, City-County BuildingPresenting Proclamation To WYEP For Pittsburgh Music MonthTime: 11:30 A.M.Location: Mayor's Conference Room, City-County BuildingMeeting With Director Of Public Safety Wendell HissrichTime: 12:00 P.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County BuildingMeeting With Gateway Health Chief Executive Officer Cain HayesTime: 2:00 P.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County BuildingInterview With Post IndustrialTime: 3:00 P.M.Location: Mayor's Conference Room, City-County BuildingPresenting Proclamation For 50th Anniversary Of Pittsburgh's Human Relations Commission OrdinanceTime: 6:30 P.M.Location: Highmark Penn Avenue Place  - Joseph Horne Co. Building, Central Business District | 8/7/2019 08:57:15 |
| Statement on Police Changes Following Kopy's Bar Incident | PITTSBURGH, PA (July 9, 2019) Changes continue to be implemented in the Pittsburgh Bureau of Police’s Narcotics and Vice Division following an October 2018 incident inside Kopy’s bar in the South Side, Mayor William Peduto and Public Safety Director Wendell Hissrich announced today. Commander Jason Lando, who has deep experience and background in narcotics and vice investigations, was placed in charge of the division in late June and began his new role yesterday. Furthermore, new guidelines have been implemented for undercover work and additional supervisory personnel are being deployed at the division. After three independent investigations by the U.S. Attorney’s office, the District Attorney’s office and the city’s Office of Municipal Investigations – as well as interviews by Director Hissrich – no criminal charges have been filed against the four undercover detectives involved in the 2018 incident.  The Mayor and Director announced today that the four detectives will remain on the force, but reassigned to other positions in the Police Bureau. | 9/7/2019 12:03:19 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Tuesday, July 9, 2019 | Attending Pittsburgh Technology Council MeetingTime: 9:00 A.M.Location: Marriot City Center, Central Business DistrictMeeting With Allegheny County Executive Richard FitzgeraldTime: 11:00 A.M.Location: Mayor’s Office, City-County BuildingMeeting With Jason Brown and Kim AmeyTime: 1:00 P.M.Location: Mayor’s Conference Room, City-County BuildingInterview with 2019 Menino Survey of Mayor’sTime: 2:30 P.M.Location: Mayor’s Office, City-County Building | 9/7/2019 09:07:39 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Wednesday, July 10, 2019 | Pennsylvania Municipal League Legislative Co-Chair Committee CallTime: 10:00 A.M.Location: Mayor’s Office, City-County BuildingMayor’s Office Intern PicnicTime: 5:00 P.M.Location: Schenley Park, Squirrel Hill SouthRonald McDonald House Charities Founders ReceptionTime: 6:30 P.M.Location: Ronald McDonald House Pittsburgh, Central Lawrenceville | 10/7/2019 09:46:52 |
| Neighborhood Quality of Life Matters Now Overseen by Local Judges | PITTSBURGH, PA (July 10, 2019) A new order from the Allegheny County Court of Common Pleas will lead to neighborhood-level oversight of enforcement actions by the City’s Department of Mobility and Infrastructure. DOMI regularly holds contractors and others responsible for violations on city rights-of-way, which can include utility cuts that are not properly restored, traffic closures outside of legally permitted hours, or sidewalks improperly closed without a permit. Until now such violations have been overseen by District Judges working at Municipal Court Downtown. Under a new order from President Judge Kim Berkeley Clark all such violations will now be heard by city District Judges in the Magisterial District Court office in the city neighborhoods where the alleged violations occurred. “This order provides for just what Pittsburgh residents and community groups have long wanted – more local oversight of quality of life issues by the neighborhood judges who know their communities best,” Mayor William Peduto said. “I want to thank the President Judge and the City’s 12 community-based District Judges for their attention to these important matters.” A copy of the order is attached. | 10/7/2019 13:08:09 |
| New Affordable Housing Proposals Go Before URA Board | PITTSBURGH, PA (July 10, 2019) New affordable housing units are coming to the Hill District and Lincoln-Lemington through resolutions going before the Urban Redevelopment Authority of Pittsburgh board this week, as well as a program to help landlords offer more options to low-income renters. In Lincoln-Lemington-Belmar, the Housing Opportunity Fund is seeking approval of a $650,000 loan agreement to support the creation of 54 units of affordable housing at the former Lemington Home for the Aged. The project will create a mixed-use development including 54 one-bedroom-units of senior housing with complimentary commercial uses coupling housing and health.  The building at 1625 Lincoln Avenue was developed in 1982 as a nursing home, but has sat vacant since going into foreclosure over a decade ago. The redevelopment plan includes the replacement of all major building systems and various site enhancements – additional on-site parking and improved stormwater management. The Housing Opportunity Fund is also seeking approval from the board for a Small Landlord Fund, which will provide financing for 1 to 5-unit buildings for upgrades to make them eligible for Section 8 Housing Quality Standard inspections. The federal Housing Choice Voucher program (also known as Section 8) is a great resource for much-needed affordable housing in which low-income households pay 30% of their monthly income for apartment units, with the federal government paying the difference for monthly rent. Unfortunately some 70% of such households in the city cannot find private apartments for use with the vouchers since many units do not meet federal inspection standards.  The proposed Landlord Fund – capitalized by a $500,000 loan from the PNC Foundation – would provide loans of up to $20,000 per unit for landlords to upgrade their properties and bring more Section 8-eligible apartments into the affordable housing market. In the Upper Hill, the board will consider acquiring 21 tax-delinquent and largely vacant properties to assist the Amani Christian Development Corporation and Catalyst Communities, LLC, turn them into a proposed affordable residential townhome development. The properties are on Herron Avenue, Milwaukee Street, Bryn Mawr Road and Ossipee Street. The URA board meets Thursday afternoon. | 10/7/2019 09:42:02 |
| New Locally-Based Public Art Project Planned for McKinley Park in Beltzhoover | PITTSBURGH, PA (July 11, 2019) A new public art project at the Upper McKinley Park basketball court in Beltzhoover is set to be funded by the Urban Redevelopment Authority of Pittsburgh. The proposal by artist Janel Young, who grew up in Beltzhoover, is called “Home Court Advantage” and was designed in consultation with input from the local community and youth from Voices Against Violence. The URA’s Economic Development Department is awarding $15,500 for the installation of the public art project at 900 Delmont Avenue, and it is expected to be implemented by this fall. Young’s proposal went before the City’s Art Commission in May and was described in part this way: “The artist pulled from her previous original works and experiences to develop 2 bold and exciting color palettes and an uplifting phrase for the court that embodies the expressed themes, “There is Victory in Unity.” The word “victory” being applicable to both the basketball court and everyday life.This color palette was inspired by a previous piece entitled “Victorious.” The dripping design plays off of the community “waterhole” analogy mentioned in the feedback to the significance of this court. The red and yellow overlapping rectangles symbolize the continuous giving to one another, building bridges across peers and generations.  The checkered pattern in the paint section resembles that of a finish line flag, encouraging the community to support each other in getting things done and crossing the metaphorical finish line together.Graphic: "Home Court Advantage" design by Janel Young/ JY Originals | 11/7/2019 12:33:33 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Thursday, July 11, 2019 | Attending "Topping-off " Ceremony for Allegheny General Hospital’s Academic Cancer CenterTime: 10:00 A.M.Location: Allegheny Commons EastAttending EMS Swearing-In CeremonyTime: 1:30 P.M.Location: Council Chamber, City-County BuildingWeekly Scheduling MeetingTime: 3:00 P.M.Location: Mayor's Conference Room, City-County Building | 11/7/2019 10:27:52 |
| Five Pittsburgh Affordable Housing Developments Awarded Low-Income Tax Credits | PITTSBURGH, PA (July 11, 2019) Five affordable housing developments in Pittsburgh were awarded low-income tax credits today, part of 39 such projects around the state receiving the support, Governor Tom Wolf announced. It marks the largest number of Pittsburgh developments to receive the low-income tax credits in memory, and was a priority of Mayor William Peduto. A jury of affordable housing professionals gave one Pittsburgh development – North Negley Residences – special “Innovation in Design” recognition for its adaptive reuse of a historic building in Garfield into 45 mixed-income units. Those rental units will incorporate significant energy efficiency and sustainable features, as well as community amenities.   “Tax credits are the best tool we have for funding the construction of affordable rental housing,” Governor Wolf said. “Tax credits provide the incentive for investment, which in turn funds the construction. The end result is more affordable housing options for Pennsylvanians.” Seeking the 9% Low-Income Housing Tax Credits (LIHTC) from Governor Wolf and the Pennsylvania Housing Finance Agency was one of Mayor Peduto’s top priorities for 2019. “I want to thank the Governor, PHFA and our local legislative delegation, led by Senators Jay Costa, Wayne Fontana and Lindsey Williams, for this much-needed support of affordable housing citywide,” Mayor Peduto said. “We still have a long way to go, but with their help, the URA’s Housing Opportunity Fund, City Council support and of course the support of our neighborhoods and housing advocates we are doing all we can to keep Pittsburgh a city for all.” The Pittsburgh developments receiving credits include: - Larimer/East Liberty CNI Phase 4 in Larimer by McCormack Baron Salazar/Allies &amp; Ross Development, which includes the adaptive reuse and historic preservation of the former Larimer School including 35 units of mixed-income housing   - New Granada Square in the Hill District by Hill CDC &amp; CHN Housing Partners, which includes new construction of 40 affordable rental units plus approximately 7,200 square feet of first floor retail space   - North Negley Residences in Garfield by Beacon Communities Services LLC, Ralph A. Falbo, Inc., MCAPS LLC, which includes partial adaptive reuse of existing classroom structure, development of 45 affordable housing units; integration of the B'Nai Israel Synagogue rotunda/sanctuary building   - Flats on Forward in Squirrel Hill South by Action Housing, Inc., which includes new construction of a 6-story, mixed-use building to contain 43 affordable units, retail space, office space, and units for people with disabilities   - City’s Edge in Uptown by Midpoint, which includes 70 affordable units and job availability to low-income residents of the development   The full list of statewide recipients of housing funding including LIHTC and other awards is available here. | 11/7/2019 13:59:22 |
| Applications Being Accepted for Catapult Small Business Incubation Program | PITTSBURGH, PA (July 10, 2019) Applications are being accepted to enroll in Catapult, an Urban Redevelopment Authority funded 12-month business incubation program. This will be the second cohort of Catapult: Startup to Storefront, which is a competitive program open to only 10 entrepreneurs citywide. The free program includes one-on-one mentoring sessions, educational seminars and strategic partnerships to help start-up businesses succeed. Retail, food and lifestyle businesses are preferred. The new round of applications is set to be announced at the URA’s monthly board meeting today. Applications will be accepted until August 5, 2019. The application form can be found here on the Circles Greater Pittsburgh website. The program will start on September 9 and classes will be held at the Gallery on Penn, 5935 Penn Avenue, East Liberty. For questions or assistance in filling out the application, call Circles Greater Pittsburgh at 412-623-9596. The first Catapult cohort graduated in January. Businesses included: - 360 Cafe LLC - Kin of Duncan - Naptural Beauty Supply - CobblerWorld - IMIHI - NQBikeRide - TLC Libations - Cultural Oasis - PBI Professional Barber Institute - WearAbility - Talk Over Tea by DBR - Mortar and Pestle Catering | 11/7/2019 09:35:31 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Friday, July 12, 2019 | Speaking at Whiskey Rebellion Trail Launch Welcome LunchTime: 12:30 P.M.Location: Heinz History Center, Strip District | 12/7/2019 10:21:29 |
| Statement on Kopy's Bar Incident and Litigation | PITTSBURGH, PA (July 12, 2019) The City of Pittsburgh and the Public Safety Department issued the following statement as a follow-up to Tuesday’s announcement about the police incident at Kopy’s Bar on the South Side in October, 2018: City officials understand some questions may persist about this case but they are constrained from providing additional information due to the pending lawsuits against the City and the officers. In order to preserve the integrity of the litigation process, information about internal investigations and decisions is necessarily limited. The U.S. Attorney’s Office and the District Attorney’s Office separately investigated this matter and declined to charge any of the four officers. OMI and the Department of Public Safety conducted detailed investigations culminating in corrective action. However, the confidentiality requirements of the collective bargaining agreement with the Fraternal Order of Police, state law confidentiality mandates, as well as the ongoing litigation prevent the City from disclosing additional details at this time.“Even beyond the multiple independent investigations of the officers, the Department of Public Safety continues to take steps to ensure Pittsburgh has the best police protection possible,” Mayor William Peduto said. | 12/7/2019 14:59:18 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Saturday, July 13, 2019 | Saturday, July 13, 2019Attending Zone 6 Community DayTime: 12:30 P.M.Location: Zone 6 Station 312 S Main Street, West EndSpeaking at Primanti Brothers' Wedding CeremonyTime: 1:15 P.M.Location: Primanti Brothers, Strip DistrictAttending "I am so Hill" Committee's Freedom Peace Assembly Block PartyTime: 2:30 P.M.Location: Centre Ave, Hill DistrictSunday, July 14, 2019No public events. | 13/7/2019 14:34:31 |
| Children Receive First Free Books from Dolly Parton's Imagination Library | PITTSBURGH, PA (July 15, 2019) Pittsburgh preschoolers last week began receiving their free books from the City of Pittsburgh's partnership with Dolly Parton's Imagination Library.The first shipment of books was sent to 1,402 children who were enrolled in the program at the beginning of June. Another 400 children have been added to the program since then and will receive their first books in coming weeks.Legislation was introduced to Pittsburgh City Council in February to accept $250,000 from the Benter Foundation to establish the Pittsburgh program. Through the program children who are residents of the City of Pittsburgh receive age-appropriate books every month from birth until the age of 5. All children receive "The Little Engine That Could" as their first book, as it is Dolly Parton's favorite.More information including instructions on how to apply for the program is available here. | 15/7/2019 11:47:38 |
| Streetscape Improvements Begin on Broadway Avenue in Beechview | PITTSBURGH, PA (July 15, 2019) The City of Pittsburgh’s Department of Mobility and Infrastructure is beginning construction of streetscape and safety improvements today along Broadway Avenue in Beechview. The Parking Lot Painting Company will complete this work along Broadway Avenue from approximately Wenzell Avenue to Fallowfield Avenue.  Streetscape improvements were designed through a 2017 community process with the goals of improving the experience for transit riders in the corridor, improving pedestrian safety and reducing vehicle speeding and traffic incidents. The safety improvements to be installed this week include the expansion of pedestrian space at the T-station platforms, lane restriping, and new crosswalks. The existing vehicle lanes separating the T-stops from the sidewalk will be closed to improve safety for transit riders at the stop and shorten the pedestrian crossing distance. A separate contract consisting of concrete slab and joint repair was recently completed. Future year anticipated work to improve the corridor includes design and construction of enhanced plaza space, addition of public art at the T-stops and reconstruction of transit platforms.Legislation is being introduced to Pittsburgh City Council tomorrow for DOMI to receive $20,000 from the Urban Redevelopment Authority to support the public art portion, which will including artist-designed curb extensions along the corridor.Work is scheduled to start today and is estimated to last one week, weather permitting. Hours of operation will be Monday through Friday, 7:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. Restrictions will occur in both directions in all lanes, but construction will be limited to only one lane at a time so that through traffic in both directions will be maintained. No parking signs will be posted 24 hours in advance and any vehicles parked in the work zone will be towed. The Department’s personnel is working closely with the Port Authority of Allegheny County to minimize impacts to the Port Authority’s Light Rail “T” line.Those with questions regarding this project may contact the Project Manager at DOMI.Broadway@pittsburghpa.gov | 15/7/2019 10:40:39 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Monday, July 15, 2019 | Presenting Sophie Masloff Employee of the Month AwardTime: 10:00 A.M.Location: Mayor’s Conference Room, City-County BuildingAttending United Steel Workers Installation CeremonyTime: 11:00 A.M.Location: Omni William Penn Hotel, Central Business DistrictSpeaking at Gaby et Jules Ribbon Cutting CeremonyTime: 1:00 P.M.Location: 6006 Penn Avenue, East LibertyAttending Desmone Architects Ribbon Cutting and Grand Opening CeremonyTime: 2:00 P.M.Location: 3400 Butler Street, Lower Lawrenceville | 15/7/2019 11:03:08 |
| Lawrenceville Added to National Register of Historic Places | PITTSBURGH, PA (July 16, 2019) The City of Pittsburgh Department of City Planning is pleased to announce that Lawrenceville has been added to the National Register of Historic Places by the U.S. Department of the Interior. The Register was authorized by the National Historic Preservation Act of 1966, according to the U.S. Park Service, and it “is part of a national program to coordinate and support public and private efforts to identify, evaluate, and protect America's historic and archeological resources.” The listing honors the neighborhood’s history but has no effect on private property owners in the district. “Lawrenceville was built into one of the city’s greatest neighborhoods through the hard work of generations of those who came before us — our challenge now is to protect it for generations to come,” said District 7 Councilwoman Deb Gross. “Lawrenceville is one of the oldest neighborhoods in the city, founded in 1814. It has such unique, historic character, which has directly led to its current economic boom,” said Brian Mendelssohn of the Lawrenceville Historical Society. “We are very happy the National Park Service recognizes the hard work by so many in preserving Lawrenceville’s historic buildings. This designation will only encourage more historic preservation. We love that it encompasses both the residential parts and the business district.” The City’s full National Register nomination document can be viewed here. It says in part: “The period of significance of the historic district extends from 1814 to 1950. 1814 is the date of the founding of the original village of Lawrenceville around the Allegheny Arsenal, also established in that year, all on land purchased by William Barclay Foster. By 1950, the neighborhood had largely been built out, and Lawrenceville’s industrial production had reached its peak. The historic district includes 22 blocks of Butler Street, the neighborhood’s primary commercial corridor; the site of the Civil War-era Allegheny Arsenal, part of which is now a public park, and remaining resources associated with this complex; industrial and institutional resources that provided employment and medical and educational services to the community in the 19th and 20th centuries; churches; two cemeteries, including Allegheny Cemetery, previously listed individually on the National Register; and many blocks of residential resources representing a range of architectural styles as expressed in, predominantly, working class housing from the early 19th to the mid-20th centuries.” The nomination was written by Angelique Bamberg of Clio Consulting, Jesse Belfast of Michael Baker International and by Carol Peterson, the late Lawrenceville historian, writer and preservationist. “None of this could have happened without support from the Pennsylvania Museum and Historical Commission, the Urban Redevelopment Authority, and team members from Lawrenceville United and the Lawrenceville Corporation, who shared with us their well defined public involvement mechanism,” said city Historic Preservation Planner Sarah Quinn. Quinn had special praise for Peterson, who died of cancer in 2017.  “This project wouldn't have been anywhere near as successful without her vast knowledge of Lawrenceville history,” Quinn said. | 16/7/2019 11:52:26 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Tuesday, July 16, 2019 | PITTSBURGH, PA (July 16, 2019) Mayor William Peduto’s schedule today features a visit to the Frick Park Lawn Bowling Club in Point Breeze, which dates to 1937 and is the only lawn bowling club in Pennsylvania. The bowling greens on Reynolds Street are on land donated to the City by industrialist Henry Clay Frick in 1919. A history of the club is available here. Today’s event is to celebrate new lighting at the greens that was constructed this spring. Mayor William Peduto’s Public Schedule – Tuesday, July 16, 2019: Meeting with Lauren HaffnerTime: 11 a.m. Location: Mayor’s Office Visit to Frick Park Lawn Bowling ClubTime: 12:30 p.m. Location: 7300 Reynolds Street, Point Breeze Meeting with Janis Burley Wilson and Jocelyn Malik, August Wilson African American Cultural CenterTime: 2 p.m. Location: Mayor’s Office | 16/7/2019 08:43:40 |
| Statement by Mayor William Peduto on the Passing of Officer Calvin Hall | PITTSBURGH, PA (July 17, 2019) Mayor William Peduto released the following statement today regarding the death of Pittsburgh Police Officer Calvin Hall, who was shot July 14: “On behalf of all residents of the City of Pittsburgh I want to express my deepest condolences to the family, friends and coworkers of Officer Hall, a man who was deeply committed to his public service to the community. The coming days will once again be difficult ones for our city, as we come together to mourn in pain and sadness. I am ordering all flags at city facilities to fly at half-staff through the officer’s funeral.” | 17/7/2019 12:48:31 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Wednesday, July 17, 2019 | PITTSBURGH, PA (July 17, 2019) Mayor William Peduto is in Washington D.C. today where he will testify at the very first U.S. Senate hearing held by the Senate Democrats’ Special Committee on the Climate Crisis. At the 1 p.m. hearing Mayor Peduto and mayors from four other cities will discuss their efforts to cut carbon pollution and become more resilient to the impacts of climate change. They will also discuss the role the federal government can and should play in helping cities achieve their clean energy goals and fight climate change. The other mayors are: Keisha Lance Bottoms of Atlanta; Kirk Caldwell of Honolulu; Melvin Carter of Saint Paul; and Ted Wheeler of Portland. The Committee is chaired by U.S. Senator Brian Schatz of Hawai‘i and its other members include U.S. Senators Sheldon Whitehouse (D-R.I.), Jeff Merkley (D-Ore.), Michael Bennet (D-Colo.), Tammy Baldwin (D-Wis.), Martin Heinrich (D-N.M.), Ed Markey (D-Mass.), Tammy Duckworth (D-Ill.), Catherine Cortez Masto (D-Nev.), and Tina Smith (D-Minn.). Video of the hearing will be available here ( link updated).A copy of Mayor Peduto’s written testimony is available here. Actively fighting climate change and saving the earth’s environment have been top priorities of Mayor Peduto over his quarter century in public service. He is the sole U.S. representative on the board of the Global Covenant of Mayors for Climate &amp; Energy, a global organization of more than 9,000 local governments addressing climate change, has fought the Trump Administration over its withdrawal from the Paris Climate Accords, and has long made Pittsburgh an environmental leader. Over the past plus-two decades he has: - Sponsored the Clean Air Act - Sponsored the Clean Water Act - Sponsored the Hillside Preservation Ordinance - Sponsored the Sustainable Development LEED Bonus Legislation - Co-sponsored Pittsburgh’s ban on fracking - Created the Shade Tree Commission - Sponsored Efforts for Tree City USA designation - Started Earth Hour participation in Pittsburgh - Been named the only elected official on the original Blue Green Alliance Board - Sponsored the City's First Climate Action Plan - Pledged the City's move to renewable energy by 2030 - Acquired the largest park in the City's History - Garnered the first local elected endorsement from the Sierra Club - Recognized for environmental stewardship with awards from Green Building Alliance, GASP and Sierra Club - Secured nearly $50 million in state funds to replace lead water service lines In the past five years alone his administration has: - Acquired Hays Woods Park  - Adopted into the Biophelic Cities Network  - Adopted the Milan Urban Food Compact  - Completed Farmers Market Community Benefits Study  - Removed pesticide treatment at parks - Increased the number of lots being adopted by residents - Completed first facilities waste audits for City-County Building - Completion of Zero Waste Roadmap - Distributed blue recycling bins to residents - Conducted first city fleet baseline assessment that evaluates number of vehicles and fuel consumption  - Decreased the size of the fleet  - Deployed first zero emissions fueling stations with 5 solar-powered EV stations  - Increased the number of EVs and Hybrids in the fleet - Completed City’s first professionally, peer reviewed GHG Inventory  - Co-Developed the Edmonton Doctrine for City Emissions Reporting Mayor William Peduto’s Public Schedule – Wednesday, July 17, 2019: Testimony to Senate Democrats’ Special Committee on the Climate CrisisTime: 1 p.m. Location: U.S. Capitol, Senate Visitors Center Room 208, Washington D.C. | 17/7/2019 08:59:30 |
| Statement on State Supreme Court Rulings | PITTSBURGH, PA (June 17, 2019) Mayor William Peduto and City Councilman Corey O'Connor issued the following statements today on rulings by the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania in favor of a city ordinance requiring paid sick leave for workers, and against one requiring safety training for security guards: “Guaranteeing paid sick leave is a huge win for those who live and work in Pittsburgh. As I’ve long said, people should not be forced into the making the tough decision between staying home sick and missing a day’s pay, or coming in to work and spreading infection. I want to thank the Supreme Court for affirming Pittsburgh’s statutory powers to do what’s best for our people, and the four Pittsburgh City Council members who sponsored the 2015 Paid Sick Days Act: Corey O’Connor, Natalia Rudiak, Deb Gross and the Rev. Ricky Burgess. While I am disappointed the Court ruled against the Safe and Secure Buildings Act, I am confident SEIU 32BJ, the security officers union, will work diligently to ensure that officers are prepared to ensure the safety of those working in downtown buildings,” Mayor William Peduto said.Councilman O'Connor said: “This is not only a historic win for workers in Pittsburgh but for all of Pennsylvania. Pittsburgh's leadership on this issue has shown a path forward for other cities to enact their own paid sick day benefits. I want to thank all the workers, SEIU, SEIU Healthcare, and Pittsburgh United for their support. I also want to thank my colleagues on Council and the Mayor for supporting this bill. This is not a win for politicians. This is a win for workers fighting for economic justice.”Today’s Supreme Court rulings are available here, and the Paid Sick Days Act is available here. | 17/7/2019 11:17:21 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Thursday, July 18, 2019 | No public events scheduled | 18/7/2019 09:11:26 |
| City to Activate Cooling Centers This Weekend | UPDATE: Cooling centers will now be open on Sunday as well.PITTSBURGH, PA (July 18, 2019) With an Excessive Heat Watch in effect in Pittsburgh starting at noon tomorrow, a select number of Citiparks Healthy Active Living Centers will serve as cooling centers from Friday through Sunday.Healthy Active Living (Senior Community) Centers:HOURS:          Friday, July 19: 8 a.m. to 7 p.m.                         Saturday, July 20, and Sunday, July 21: 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. LOCATIONS:            - Greenfield Healthy Active Living (Senior) Center, 745 Greenfield Avenue  412.422.6551   - Homewood Healthy Active Living (Senior) Center, 7321 Frankstown Avenue  412.244.4190   - West End Healthy Active Living (Senior) Center, 80 Wabash Avenue  412.937.3068   Outdoor swimming pools are open, weather permitting. A list of outdoor pools can be found here.Spray Parks are also open daily, weather permitting. A list of spray park facilities can be found here. | 18/7/2019 09:14:42 |
| Electronic and Hazardous Waste Recycling Drop-Off Program Begins Next Week | PITTSBURGH, PA (July 18, 2019) Starting July 24, for the first time since TVs and computers were banned from Pennsylvania landfills in 2010, the City of Pittsburgh will subsidize a twice-weekly option for electronics and household hazardous waste recycling at a drop-off site in the Strip District.  The City’s Bureau of Environmental Services will host a contracted vendor, Environmental Coordination Services and Recycling (ECS&amp;R), to accept materials at their 3001 Railroad Street facility Wednesdays from 3-8pm and Sundays from 9am-5pm.  Drop-off appointments must be scheduled in advance through ecsr.net/pittsburgh-recycling or by calling 814-425-7773. This program was approved last year by Mayor William Peduto and City Council from legislation introduced by Councilwoman Theresa Kail-Smith and former Councilman (and current mayoral Chief of Staff) Dan Gilman. E-waste and hazardous waste must be recycled in ways that comply with state and federal laws. The cost to recycle most TVs and computers will be 40 cents per pound, so the fee for recycling a 50 pound TV will be around $20. The full list of items and fees associated is posted at ecsr.net/Pittsburgh-RecyclingServices will expand early this fall to include pick-up options for an additional fee, as well as neighborhood events.  At-a-glance:Location:  3001 Railroad Street (close to the 31st St Bridge) Pittsburgh, PA 15201 Hours:  Every Wednesday, 3 - 8 pm  Every Sunday, 9 am - 5 pm  Schedule a ten minute drop-off time at ecsr.net/pittsburgh-recycling/ or by calling 814-425-7773 Fees apply for most items. Find material list and fees at ecsr.net/Pittsburgh-Recycling/ or contact 311  Both checks and credit cards accepted for payment (3% card processing fee will be applied) | 18/7/2019 10:08:59 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Saturday and Sunday, July 20-21, 2019 | Saturday, July 20, 2019:End of Watch Ceremony for Officer Calvin HallTime: 8 p.m.Location: Zone 1 Police Station, 1501 Brighton Road, Califonria-KirkbrideSunday, July 21, 2019Pittsburgh Vintage Grand PrixTime: 11 a.m.Location: Schenley Park, Squirrel Hill | 19/7/2019 14:13:49 |
| Citiparks to Launch New Rec to Tech Innovation Series | PITTSBURGH, PA (July 19, 2019)  Citiparks and Mayor William Peduto are excited to announce the kickoff of the pilot class for its Rec to Tech Coding Initiative —PGHcode412. This initiative will happen at the Paulson Recreation Center in Lincoln-Lemington, 1201 Paulson Avenue, 15206, on Saturday, July 20, 2019 from 11 a.m. to 12:30 p.m., and will be executed over a total of 4 sessions.During this innovation series, youth will learn mathematical skills, problem solving skills, logic and abstract thinking, as it aligns to coding. (Coding is computer language that allows users to develop apps, website and software.) They will start with the basics of HTML, CSS (Cascading Style Sheet) and JavaScript.“Citiparks, in conjunction with support from our office and other internal departments, plans to introduce technology based programs at four of the City’s Community Recreation Centers by the end of 2020,” Mayor Peduto said.  While these four locations have not been fully vetted, Citiparks is looking at Jefferson Rec Center and two additional locations to be determined.Per Max Dennison, PGHcode412 Program Supervisor, “The Mayor’s office began the conversation of connecting kids of all colors in the urban community to 21st Century tech skill sets. By providing a safe space in their community to foster those skills we at Citiparks look forward to fulfilling this mission.”“Citiparks is excited to bring this innovation technology to Paulson Rec Center. We look forward to learning and growing from this pilot program so that we may help bridge the technology gap in an effort to get kids connected across our City!” said Department of Parks and Recreation Director Ross Chapman.As the city moves forward with PGHcode412, it is important to keep in mind this program will represent only one piece of our overall Rec to Tech initiative. It will ultimately include Artificial Intelligence, Robotics and additional STEAM programs. | 19/7/2019 11:00:44 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Friday, July 19, 2019 | Meeting with Solicitor Yvonne HiltonTime: 11:30 a.m.Location: Mayor's OfficeMeeting with Kevin Acklin, Pittsburgh PenguinsTime: 1 p.m.Location: Mayor's OfficeMeeting with Janis Burley Wilson and Jocelyn Malik, August Wilson Center for African American CultureTime: 3 p.m.Location: Mayor's Office | 19/7/2019 10:52:14 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Monday, July 22, 2019 | Meeting With Director of Public Safety Wendell Hissr ich &amp; Assistant Solicitor Kelly MistickTime: 9:45 A.M. Location: Mayor’s Office, City-County Building Welcoming Interfaith Delegation from South East AsiaTime: 10:00 A.M. Location: Mayor’s Conference Room, City-County Building Phone Call With Richard GarlandTime: 11:30 A.M. Location: Mayor’s Office, City-County Building Meeting with Chief of Staff Dan Gilman, Councilwoman Theresa Kail-Smith, &amp; Paul LegerTime: 12:00 P.M. Location: Mayor’s Conference Room, City-County Building | 22/7/2019 09:10:58 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Tuesday, July 23, 2019 | Funeral of Pittsburgh Police Officer Calvin HallTime: 11 a.m.Location: Soliders &amp; Sailors Memorial Hall, Oakland | 23/7/2019 09:14:21 |
| New Mobility Demonstration to Expand Sustainable Transportation Options in City Neighborhoods | PITTSBURGH, PA (July 24, 2019) The City of Pittsburgh today announced a first-of-its-kind initiative - the Pittsburgh Mobility Collective (PMC). PMC is a self-organized collective of last mile and alternate commute mobility providers. Selected through a competitive solicitation process, the collective organizes a range of different mobility service providers into a unified mobility service offering providing last mile connections to transit and sustainable transportation alternatives to private drive-alone auto trips.  The PMC pilot will complement and expand access to and utility of mass transit services and Healthy Ride public bike share. PMC is led by Skinny Labs (a.k.a. Spin) joined by the Transit app, Zipcar, Ford Mobility, Waze and Swiftmile.  The collective will provide a suite of mobility services, platforms and infrastructure tailored to the needs of Pittsburgh residents, workers and visitors. The PMC mobility “toolbox” will include 150 electric pedal assist bicycles, expanded carshare, new carpool and shared ride services, multimodal trip planning built around existing backbone mass transit service, up to 50 public curbside micromobility electric charging stations, and, when available in the Commonwealth, shared e-scooter vehicles. These new urban mobility services will be deployed after engagement with local neighborhoods to develop community-defined pilots and mobility trials. The pilots will help the City and community gather public feedback and planning insight to deliver more resilient transportation options for all. Mobility experts from the NUMO Alliance, together with a local innovation non-profit, will help facilitate engagement, design, monitoring and measurement activities. “Expanding non-auto dependent mobility options is vital to meeting our affordable livability and climate change action objectives - needs that are getting increasingly more urgent,” said Karina Ricks, Director of the Department of Mobility and Infrastructure, which will oversee the initiative. “This demonstration project Is an opportunity to work with neighborhoods with limited transportation options and provide them with new urban mobility possibilities to support their economic mobility,” said Majestic Lane, Chief Equity Officer and Deputy Chief of Staff to Mayor William Peduto.Community discussions around the first mobility trials will initially launch later this summer. DOMI has posted a brief survey to gather input from the Pittsburgh community before neighborhood discussions begin. DOMI issued a Request for Proposals in April for those interested in forming a mobility demonstration project, and the PMC was chosen.  For more Information contact Karina Ricks at 412-255-2523 or DOMI@pittsburghpa.gov | 24/7/2019 13:08:08 |
| City Debuts Glass Recycling Pilot Drop-off Locations | PITTSBURGH, PA (July 24, 2019) Pittsburgh residents are encouraged to bring their glass bottles, jugs and jars of 3 gallons or less to three satellite drop-off locations.  While the Environmental Services Bureau of the Department of Public Works still accepts glass for curb-side recycling, glass in the city’s single-stream system often contaminates other recyclables, and is part of the reason why recycling costs have increased and some municipalities have stopped collecting glass altogether. As such, the city is experimenting with the glass drop-off locations to support proper source separation. The lime green gable top recycling containers were purchased through a Department of Environmental Protection grant to pilot collecting source-separated glass.  The collected glass will be delivered to Superior Mulch, LLC by Environmental Services and then collected and processed by its sister company Carry All Products located in Mt. Pleasant, PA. What is accepted?Any traditional food grade glass bottle, jug or jar of 3 gallons or less is accepted in the glass roll-off container. All green, amber, clear, and blue glass is accepted and can be placed in the glass-only container altogether. All other recyclable items, such as cardboard boxes, should be placed in a separate recycling dumpster.  What is not accepted?Pyrex, drinkware, plate, mirror, or automotive glass are not accepted and are contaminants. Other contaminants are, lids/caps, plastic bags, crates, electronic waste, household chemical waste, other recyclables, or general trash items deemed for landfill.  Residents are urged not to recycle inappropriate contaminated materials during this pilot program. Satellite Drop-off Locations:Construction Junction Address: 241 N Lexington Ave  Pittsburgh, PA 15208 Hours: 8:00 a.m. – 6:00 p.m. (Monday –Friday) Weekend Hours: 9:00 a.m. -5:00 p.m. (Saturday) &amp; 10:00 a.m. – 5:00 p.m. (Sunday) Strip District Address: 3001 Railroad Street  (under the 31st Street Bridge)  24 hour access Beltzhoover McKinley Skate Park Bausman Street Pittsburgh, PA 15210  24 hour access | 24/7/2019 09:39:34 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Wednesday, July 24, 2019 | Meeting With Ivan Watson, President Of The Watson FoundationTime: 10:30 A.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County BuildingFilming Interview With Trib Total MediaTime: 11:30 A.M.Location: Mayor's Conference Room, City-County BuildingWeekly Meeting With Director Of Public Safety Wendell Hissrich &amp; Chief Of Police Scott SchubertTime: 2:00 P.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County BuildingMeeting With Allegheny Conference President Stefani Pashman, Greater Pittsburgh Chamber Of Commerce President Matt Smith, &amp; The Carey Group's Kevin KinrossTime: 3:30 P.M.Location: Mayor's Conference Room, City-County Building | 24/7/2019 08:57:31 |
| Mayor Peduto Congratulates City Workers for Improving City Services | PITTSBURGH, PA (July 25, 2019) Mayor William Peduto and Department of Innovation and Performance Director Santiago Garces today awarded 16 city employees for completing Gold Belt Certification for suggesting improvements on the delivery of city services. The value of the proposed improvements – which include such ideas as better disposal methods of equipment, building information portals and implementing filing system upgrades – have an estimated annual time-cost savings of $197,000. “The City of Pittsburgh has thousands of committed public servants who deliver critical services everyday. The Gold Belt program empowers our employees with tools to find more efficient ways of delivering those services. Their innovations streamline the work of the City so we can do more with less,” Garces said. The Gold Belt Certification is awarded to city employees who have completed a training workshop in process improvement and have applied the methods they learned to innovate for improvement in their department. Certified Gold Belts are process improvement experts in their department and can be called upon to assist any team to improve work processes.  Certified members are developing the capability to improve processes and expand capacity to innovate toward improved deliver of services to customers and citizens. Certified members are taught to empower staff, reduce wait times, improve throughput and organize work spaces.  They attended a half day training workshop during which staff members learn how to use tools to identify and eliminate waste in their department's processes. To be certified, participants must complete a "Just Do it Innovation" and apply what they have learned to improve their work area. Employees being recognized today include: Aiyana Stuart, DPW Carolyn Ristau, City Planning  Derrick Buckner, DPW  Debra Christian, I&amp;P  Eric Miazga, I&amp;P  Fredericka Greenwood, I&amp;P  Jeffrey Hovis, I&amp;P  Jennifer Lemasters, Special Events  Joe Adiutori, DPW  Keyva Clark, Mayor’s Office  Laekin O’Hara, City Planning  Elizabeth O’Neill, I&amp;P  Nicole Barone, I&amp;P  Stacy Hill, I&amp;P  Trever Stoll, I&amp;P  Wendy Urbanic, I&amp;P/311 | 25/7/2019 15:29:14 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Thursday, July 25, 2019 | Affirm Ribbon Cutting CeremonyTime: 9:30 A.M. Location: 30 Isabella Street, North ShoreMeeting With Adrie FellsTime: 1:30 P.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County BuildingCelebrating City Of Pittsburgh Goldbelt Cost-Saving EmployeesTime: 2:00 P.M.Location: Council Chamber, City-County Building | 25/7/2019 08:18:28 |
| Applications Open for PGH Lab Program Linking Startup Firms to Government | PITTSBURGH, PA (July 25, 2019) Mayor William Peduto, the City of Pittsburgh Department of Innovation &amp; Performance, the Urban Redevelopment Authority of Pittsburgh, the Housing Authority of the City of Pittsburgh, and Allegheny County Airport Authority today announced the opening application period of the fifth cycle of the PGH Lab program.PGH Lab connects local startup companies with the City of Pittsburgh, local authorities and independent institutions to explore new ways to use technology and new services to make local government more efficient, transparent, sustainable, and inclusive. The program provides an opportunity for local startups to test their beta-stage products and services in a real-world environment for three to four months. Through one common application, startups can propose innovative solutions, match with a participating organization and work with a “city champion,” a leader from the participating organization to guide companies through the duration of the pilot project.  “The program has led us to form strong partnerships with our local entrepreneurs and authorities. Each cycle brings its own set of challenges and opportunities that are needed to innovate city services and create public value. We are very excited to welcome the Allegheny County Airport Authority this time around,” said Mayor William Peduto. The City of Pittsburgh and the participating authorities have successfully completed four cycles and engaged 22 local startups, putting forth a variety of technological and innovative solutions including waste management and composting, business processes automation, equity and inclusion impact pop-ups, and cyber security solutions.“Throughout the PGH Lab program we were able to develop ideas, learn from experiences, and build a strong proof of concept for our future work. The time spent in the community and learning from our partners at the City of Pittsburgh was invaluable,” says Change Agency Founder and All for All Director Betty Cruz.For the fifth cycle, the City of Pittsburgh and the participating authorities welcome the Allegheny County Airport Authority as a new testing partner organization. “Driving innovation is part of our mission at ACAA and PGH Lab is another connection to our region’s innovative start-ups and world-class tech economy,” said Katherine Karolick, Senior Vice President of Information Technology at the Allegheny County Airport Authority. “We are looking forward to exploring new ideas and concepts to continue driving efficiency and improving the passenger experience at Pittsburgh International Airport and Allegheny County Airport.”Starting July 25, 2019, startups can propose solutions to complex challenges in the following areas: - Improve Operations: Further improve local government operations to make internal processes more efficient and effective. Solutions in the following sub area of interests will be highly encouraged:- Process Improvement: Help us reduce the time it takes to coordinate between projects and eliminate waste in the workplace - Smart Cities: Help Pittsburgh become a smart city by exploring newer and smarter technologies and the use of data to create economic development, enhance the quality of life for people, and improve wide accessibility especially for people with disabilities working and living in the city.- Citizen Engagement: Enhance the lines of communication among local government, non-profits, and citizens by expanding digital public engagement and increasing opportunities for all of Pittsburgh’s residents to easily access important information and resources. Citizen engagement solutions that include artists, graphic designers, and photographers are encouraged.- Climate Change &amp; Environment: Climate and environmental change are among cities' most pressing issues. Modern cities already monitor air quality, energy use, waste, and stormwater management.  Solutions in sustainability, food waste management, and circular economy or reuse/creating new products out of waste and recycling streams are highly encouraged. - Other: Suggest a pilot project that does not fall under any of the previous categories but will benefit and make a great impact in the City of Pittsburgh and the participating organizations.Participating companies will be selected through a competitive process. The PGH Lab review committee is constituted of various departments, authorities, and non-profit leaders that will identify startup companies to best match priorities and resources within each organization. Program eligibility, application form, and legal requirements can be found on the website: pghlab.pittsburghpa.gov. The application deadline is August 25, 2019 at midnight. All local startups and small businesses are encouraged to apply to this great opportunity. For news and updates, follow PGH Lab on Twitter at @PghIP and with the hashtag #PGHLab. Contact: Annia Aleman, PGH Lab Program Manager, at annia.aleman@pittsburghpa.gov | 25/7/2019 12:15:05 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Friday, July 26, 2019 | Interview With WESA's Kevin GavinTime: 10:30 A.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County BuildingTelephone Call With Cincinnati Mayor John CranleyTime: 11:30 A.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County BuildingWelcoming Visiting Students To City-County BuildingTime: 12:00 P.M.Location: Council Chamber, City-County BuildingMeeting With Public Parking Authority Of Pittsburgh Executive Director David OnoratoTime: 1:30 P.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County BuildingMeeting With Director Of Public Safety Wendell HissrichTime: 3:30 P.M.Location: Mayor's Conference Room, City-County BuildingSelecting Next Neighborhood For East End Brewing's 90 Pittsburgh Neighborhoods "You Are Here" SeriesTime: 5:30 P.M.Location: Commonplace Coffee, Central North Side | 26/7/2019 08:55:07 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Saturday and Sunday, July 27-28, 2019 | Saturday, July 27, 2019Mission Continues &amp; Operation Better Block Homewood Community Cleanup &amp; BBQTime: 10:30 A.M.Location: Frankstown Avenue, Homewood North &amp; Homewood SouthLarimer Community FestivalTime: 11:00 A.M.Location: Larimer Avenue - East Liberty Boulevard to Meadow Street, LarimerSouth Side Goat FestTime: 12:00 P.M.Location: South Side Community Garden - Bandi Schaum Field, South Side SlopesCitiParks &amp; Pittsburgh Pirates Mayor's Cup Championship GameTime: 1:00 P.M.Location: PNC Park, North ShoreSunday, July 28, 2019OpenStreets PittsburghTime: 12:00 P.M.Location: Forbes Avenue, Central Business DistrictVine Rewind Strip District Music FestivalTime: 1:00 P.M.Location: Pittsburgh Winery, Strip DistrictCelebrating Picklesburgh With Pittsburgh Downtown PartnershipTime: 2:30 P.M.Location: Roberto Clemente Bridge, Central Business District | 27/7/2019 10:30:16 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Monday, July 29, 2019 | Meeting With Ramkumar SathurappanTime: 11:00 A.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County BuildingMeeting With Brian HelwigTime: 1:30 P.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County BuildingMeeting With Canadian Consul General Phyllis YaffeTime: 3 P.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County Building | 29/7/2019 10:19:23 |
| DOMI Launches 2070 Transportation Vision Plan | PITTSBURGH, PA (July 29, 2019) The City of Pittsburgh has launched public engagement efforts to develop an ambitious and far-reaching transportation vision plan and is seeking broad input. PGH MOBILITY 2070 will create a framework to guide investment, development, and management in a complete and connected network of infrastructure, information, and services capable of supporting a fully revitalized Pittsburgh.  The effort will also result in a tactical and strategic near term (two-year) action agenda to direct the activities and investments of the Department of Mobility and Infrastructure and partners in making continuous incremental progress toward the long range vision. The planning effort challenges the public to think about the transportation needs and solutions should the City recover a significant portion of population over the next 50 years that was lost in the last half century – growing from the current 302,000 residents to 450,000 residents (still well under the historic population high of 677,000). Public and stakeholder engagement kicked off in May with input work sessions to identify connectivity needs from the City to surrounding region, among city neighborhoods, and within sub-districts of the City as well as policy priorities to ensure connections promote equity, sustainability, and economic mobility for all. The 2070 Transportation Vision Plan website describes the effort in full detail, includes a survey for interested residents, and an interactive online map where users can identify mobility needs, trouble spots and opportunities. Idea gathering will continue throughout the summer and fall as DOMI staff attends community gatherings, festivals, and events to encourage contributions from all. A list of such events is available here. Please look for staff at these events, email MOBILITY2070@pittsburghpa.gov, and/or visit https://pittsburghpa.gov/domi/transport-vision-plan for additional project information. | 29/7/2019 10:31:30 |
| Statement by Mayor William Peduto on Cancellation Announcement by Regatta Board | PITTSBURGH, PA (July 30, 2019) Mayor William Peduto released the following statement in the wake of this morning’s announcement by the board of directors of the Three Rivers Regatta that they are cancelling this year’s event: “Over the past week, my administration learned that the event management firm for the regatta, LionHeart Event Group, has not paid the City for police services the past two years, and learned the state-owned Point State Park and private vendors had not received payments either. I shared this information with members of the board, and worked with them on alternative plans to possibly hold the regatta on the North Shore instead. Efforts to save this year’s regatta were ongoing when it became apparent that LionHeart had not secured the mandatory insurance to hold the event either. At this point the regatta board decided to cancel the event, notified the City and County of its decision, and withdrew its application for a City permit. I want to thank the board and County Executive Rich Fitzgerald for their efforts to save this decades-old Pittsburgh tradition and will continue to work with them to secure the regatta’s future.” | 30/7/2019 12:51:38 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Tuesday, July 30, 2019 | Three Rivers Regatta Press ConferenceTime: 11 A.M.Location: Rivers Casino, Ohio Room, North ShoreGoverning's National Summit On InfrastructureTime: 1:00 P.M.Location: Hotel Monaco, Central Business District Ribbon Cutting For New Fort Pitt Playground Basketball CourtsTime: 2:30 P.M.Location: Fort Pitt Playground, Garfield | 30/7/2019 09:35:17 |
| Media Advisory: Mayor Peduto and Garfield Gators to Open New Basketball Court | PITTSBURGH, PA (July 30, 2019) Mayor William Peduto will join offiicals from the Housing Authority of the City of Pittsburgh, the Garfield Gators Youth Sports league, and elected and community officials this afternoon for the ribbon-cutting of a new basketball court in Garfield.WHO: Mayor Peduto, HACP Chief Community Affairs Officer Michelle Sandidge, Garfield Gators Coaches Mike Gay and Bob JonesWHAT: Opening of new basketball courtWHERE: Fort Pitt Playground, Hillcrest Street, GarfieldWHEN: 2:30 p.m., Tuesday, July 30, 2019 | 30/7/2019 09:30:01 |
| Applications Open for Fall 2019 Mayor's Civic Leadership Academy | PITTSBURGH, PA (July 30, 2019) The Civic Leadership Academy is a free, 11-week course that encourages more informed, effective, and inspired community and civic leadership by giving City residents an opportunity to learn about their local government. The Civic Leadership Academy is held twice per year and applications are open to anyone who lives in, or owns and operates a business, within the City of Pittsburgh limits. Each class meets with over 15 departments, offices, bureaus, and authorities of the City of Pittsburgh to learn about their operations, programs, and services. The Fall 2019 session will be held every Wednesday, September 4th through November 20th, 2019, from 6-8:30 p.m. (There is no class on 10/9/2019). Childcare is available upon request, and dinner is provided with each session. Participating Departments Include: - Office of Mayor William Peduto - City of Pittsburgh City Council Offices - Department of Management and Budget - Department of Finance - Pittsburgh Water and Sewer Authority - Pittsburgh Emergency Medical Services - Pittsburgh Fire Bureau - Pittsburgh Bureau of Police - Department of Parks and Recreation - Department of City Planning - Department of Mobility and Infrastructure - Department of Public Works - Urban Redevelopment Auhtority - Department of Permits, Licenses, and Inspections - Housing Authority of the City of Pittsburgh - Department of Innovation and Performance - Pittsburgh Parking Authority - Commission on Human Relations - Office of Municipal Investigations - Equality Opportunity Review Commission - 311 Learn more about the Civic Leadership Academy at pittsburghpa.gov/oca/cla and apply at applycla.pittsburghpa.govTo receive notification of future opportunities with the Civic Leadership Academy and other programs and news from the Office of Community Affairs and the City of Pittsburgh, sign up for our newsletter: newsletter.pittsburghpa.govPlease contact Leah Friedman at 412-255-2217 or leah.friedman@pittsburghpa.gov with questions or concerns. | 30/7/2019 13:19:13 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Wednesday, July 31, 2019 | Meeting With Bethlehem Haven TeamTine: 11:30 A.M.Location: Mayor's Conference Room, City-County BuildingInterview With Pittsburgh Tribune-ReviewTime: 1:00 P.M.Location: Mayor's Conference Room, City-County BuildingWeekly Meeting With Director Of Public Safety Wendell Hissrich &amp; Chief Of Police Scott SchubertTime: 2:00 P.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County BuildingPresenting Proclamation To Sean McDowell of WDVE-FMTime: 3:30 P.M.Location: Marriott City Center, Central Business District | 31/7/2019 10:06:29 |
| City Awarded Funding for Electric Vehicle Charging Stations in East Liberty | PITTSBURGH, PA (August 1, 2019) Gov. Tom Wolf and the Department of Environmental Protection announced today that the City of Pittsburgh is receiving $245,000 to install six electric vehicle charging stations at a public parking lot in East Liberty.  Mayor William Peduto’s administration and the Pittsburgh Parking Authority are seeking to  mprove air quality and support the usage of clean energy in the city and will use the charging stations at the lot at 6117 Kirkland Street as a pilot project that could be repeated in other neighborhood parking lots around the city. Charging stations are currently available in four PPA garages Downtown.  The City will install two dual hose DC fast charging stations and four dual hose level 2 EV charging stations in the lot, allowing for usage by nearby residents, those using nearby small businesses, restaurants and hotels, and for electric vehicles in the City of Pittsburgh fleet. With DC Fast charging technology, a typical electric vehicle can charge up to 80% in less than 20 minutes, reducing range anxiety for motorists on the fence about purchasing EVs because of the long time it takes to charge a vehicle. “Pittsburgh is continuing to build out EV infrastructure citywide and make improvements in local air quality, getting us ever closer to reaching our goal of 50% transportation emissions reduction by 2030. I want to thank Gov. Wolf, the DEP, the Parking Authority and our hard-working city staff for believing in this vision and helping to make it a reality,” Mayor Peduto said.  The charging stations are expected to be used by visitors to the business district, workers in office buildings and shared office spaces that have popped up in the neighborhood, and residents of East Liberty. The charging stations will be accessible to the public 24 hours a day and 7 days a week.    With the dual hoses at the 6 charging stations, a total of 12 vehicles will be able to charge simultaneously. The City plans to install the stations by early 2021. The Governor’s announcement about the Pittsburgh charging stations was part of $8.5 million awarded statewide today to support the reduction of transportation pollution. | 1/8/2019 13:43:55 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Thursday, August 1, 2019 | Pittsburgh Technical Advisory Committee MeetingTime: 11:30 A.M.Location: Southwestern Pennsylvania Commission, Central Business District10th Anniversary Open House For Latino Family CenterTime: 12:00 P.M.Location: Latino Family Center, HazelwoodMeeting With Consul General Of China In New York, Ambassador Huang PingTime: 2:00 P.M.Location: Mayor's Conference Room, City-County BuildingMeeting With Pittsburgh Bureau Of Police AdministrationTime: 3:00 P.M.Location: Mayor's Conference Room, City-County BuildingWelcoming Reception For Pittsburgh Regional Alliance President Mark ThomasTime: 5:00 P.M.Location: Pittsburgh Playhouse, Central Business District | 1/8/2019 08:57:10 |
| City of Pittsburgh Receives State RACP Funding for Redevelopment Projects in Neighborhoods Citywide | PITTSBURGH, PA (August 1, 2019) Several City of Pittsburgh redevelopment projects received $4.5 million in state funding today to support ongoing work to revitalize Homewood, Elliott, Larimer and other city neighborhoods. The funding comes from the 2019 Revitalization Assistance Capital Program, or RACP, which provides financial support for the acquisition and construction of regional economic, cultural, civic, recreational, and historical improvement projects statewide. “I want to thank Governor Wolf and all our city House and Senate members for delivering this RACP funding, which will be used to transform city neighborhoods all over Pittsburgh. The City, the Urban Redevelopment Authority and the Housing Authority thank all their state and community partners for their commitments to these projects,” Mayor William Peduto said. The RACP grants awarded today to City revitalization projects include: - $500,000 to preserve and stabilize the Homewood Coliseum - $500,000 for the expansion of Stargell Field in Homewood - $1 million for the renovation of Hunt Armory in Shadyside into a recreational facility - $1 million for the redevelopment of the historic Larimer School - $1 million for the rehabilitation of the historic Oliver Bath House indoor pool in the South Side - $500,000 for the redevelopment of Stevens Elementary School in Elliott into a new headquarters for the Bureau of Police Special Deployment Division | 1/8/2019 16:07:50 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Friday, August 2, 2019 | Delivering Dan + Shay ProclamationTime: 9 a.m.Location: Y108 Studio, Green Tree | 2/8/2019 09:42:45 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Saturday and Sunday, August 3-4, 2019 | Saturday, August 3, 2019No public events scheduledSunday, August 4, 2019No public events scheduled | 3/8/2019 11:01:34 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Monday, August 5, 2019 | Light Of Life New Facility GroundbreakingTime: 10:00 A.M.Location: Voeghtly Street, North ShoreMeeting With Director Of Permits, Licenses, &amp; Inspections Maura KennedyTime: 11:00 A.M.Location: Mayor's Conference Room, City-County BuildingMeeting With Chief Of Pittsburgh Emergency Medical Services Ronald RomanoTime: 1:00 P.M.Location: Mayor's Conference Room, City-County BuildingMeeting With Director Of Public Safety Wendell HissrichTime: 2:00 P.M.Location: Mayor's Conference Room, City-County BuildingMeeting With Director Of Human Resources &amp; Civil Service Janet ManuelTime: 3:00 P.M.Location: Mayor's Conference Room, City-County Building | 5/8/2019 07:47:36 |
| Commercial Street in Swisshelm Park to Close for Tree Removal | PITTSBURGH, PA (August 5, 2019) The Forestry Division of the Department of Public Works will close Commercial Street between Whipple Street and Summerset Drive/Forward Avenue on Tuesday to place a crane in the roadway and to pull fallen trees out of the creek at the Nine Mile Run.This closure will occur on Tuesday, August 6, 2019 at 7:00 a.m. and the street will reopen at 1:00 p.m.If you have any questions regarding this road closure, feel free to contact Lisa Ceoffe, City Forrester, at 412-665-3626. | 5/8/2019 14:26:56 |
| Mayor William Peduto and Moms Demand Action Call for Immediate State and Federal Action on Gun Safety Measures | PITTSBURGH, PA (August 6, 2019) Mayor William Peduto and Moms Demand Action founder Shannon Watts today called for immediate state and federal action on common sense gun safety measures, similar to those approved by the City of Pittsburgh this year. The Mayor said federal and state lawmakers should act within 30 days on long-delayed measures, similar to those he and City Council approved in April banning the use of assault-style weapons and certain ammunition and accessories, and the adoption of a “red flag” law allowing courts to temporarily seize firearms from those who are a danger to themselves or others. “We have debated these issues for decades. It’s time for action. Anybody who ran for legislative office ran on the promise to citizens that they would vote on difficult issues, even issues they’re afraid of. If you’re not willing to vote, resign,” Mayor Peduto said. His announcement came after discussions with Dayton Mayor Nan Whaley and Moms Demand Action founder Shannon Watts, in the wake of gun massacres last weekend that killed 29 people in Dayton and El Paso, and the October murders of 11 congregants at Tree of Life, New Light Congregation and Dor Hadash in Squirrel Hill. Moms Demand Action is the grassroots arm of Everytown for Gun Safety, which is the largest gun violence prevention organization in the country and has more than 6 million supporters. Mayor Peduto today called for: - An immediate U.S. Senate vote on two pending gun safety measures approved by the House in March - Congressional approval of nationwide “red flag” laws - Congressional approval of bans on assault-style weapons and high-capacity magazines - Pennsylvania General Assembly legislation ending any state preemption of local firearms laws and criminal charges against local legislators - Approval of pending bills introduced by Senators Costa and Fontana, Representative Frankel and others banning assault-style rifles, high capacity magazines and adopting statewide “red flag” laws “It is time for the leadership in the House and the Senate of the Pennsylvania legislature to allow these bills to move from committee and allow all legislators to vote. Vote yes, vote no, but vote – and we’re calling on them to do so in the next 30 days,” Mayor Peduto said. | 6/8/2019 12:24:20 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Tuesday, August 6, 2019 | Meeting with Shannon Watts, Founder of Moms Demand ActionTime: 9:45 a.m.Location: Mayor's Office, City-County BuildingLaw Department 2020 Budget MeetingTime: 11 a.m.Location: Mayor's Conference Room, City-County BuildingBureau of Fire 2020 Budget MeetingTime: 1 p.m.Location: Mayor's Conference Room, City-County BuildingDepartment of Public Works 2020 Budget MeetingTime: 2 p.m.Location: Mayor's Conference Room, City-County BuildingMeeting with PWSA Officials on Green InfrastructureTime: 4 p.m.Location: Mayor's Conference Room, City-County Building | 6/8/2019 09:08:49 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Wednesday, August 7, 2019 | Call With the Delegation From Burkina FasoTime: 12:30 P.M.Location: Mayor’s Office, City-County BuildingWeekly Meeting With Chief of Police Scott Schubert and Public Safety Director Wendell HissrichTime: 2:00 P.M.Location: Mayor’s Conference Room, City-County BuildingMeeting with Jonathan AllenTime: 3:00 P.M.Location: Mayor’s Office, City-County BuildingMeeting with Chief of Staff Dan Gilman, Deputy Chief of Staff Majestic Lane, Assistant Chief of Staff Lindsey Powell, Assistant Director of Public Safety Shatara Murphy &amp; Director of Human Relations &amp; Civil Service Janet ManuelTime: 4:00 P.M.Location: Mayor’s Conference Room, City-County Building | 7/8/2019 09:17:43 |
| Media Advisory: Mayor Peduto and Community Leaders to Open Larimer Basketball Court | Media AdvisoryPITTSBURGH, PA (August 8, 2019) Mayor William Peduto will join community leaders this morning to open a renovated basketball court in Larimer.WHO: Mayor Peduto, State Sen. Jay Costa, State Rep. Ed Gainey, City Councilman Rev. Ricky Burgess, representatives for state Sen. Lindsey Williams, Larimer community and sports officialsWHAT: Opening of renovated basketball courtWHERE: Larimer Avenue at Shetland StreetWHEN: 11:30 a.m., Thursday, August 8, 2019 | 8/8/2019 09:11:34 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Thursday, August 8, 2019 | Larimer Playground Basketball Court Renovation GroundbreakingTime: 11:30 A.M.Location: Larimer Playground, LarimerMeeting With Bill BenterTime: 12:30 P.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County BuildingScheduling MeetingTime: 2:30 P.M.Location: Mayor's Conference Room, City-County BuildingTreePittsburgh's Pizza On The PorchTime: 6:00 P.M.Location: TreePittsburgh - 62nd Street, Upper Lawrenceville - Stanton Heights BorderVigil Against HateTime: 7:00 P.M.Location: Sixth Presbyterian Church Of Pittsburgh, Squirrel Hill NorthCity Paper - Best Of Pittsburgh 2019Time: 10:00 P.M.Location: NOVA Place, Allegheny Center | 8/8/2019 09:13:09 |
| I-579 Cap Urban Connector Project - Lane and Sidewalk restrictions along Center Ave. and Webster Ave. | PITTSBURGH, PA (August 9, 2019) The City of Pittsburgh Department of Mobility and Infrastructure advises that the right lane and adjacent sidewalk of Center Ave heading WB and left lane and adjacent sidewalk of Webster Ave (EB -Bigelow Blvd) will be closed overnight Monday through Thursday from 8:00 p.m. to 6:00 a.m. starting August 12, 2019 through August 29, 2019.The restrictions are necessary to allow the contractor to perform demolition operations over I-579.  These restrictions may coincide with restrictions on I-579 and associated ramps.  The overnight lane and sidewalk closures will not be implemented on nights when there is an event at PPG Arena.  Pedestrian Detour will be along Washington Place to Center Avenue to Chatham Street.  When travelling through the work area, use caution and expect delays.The work is being performed by JB Fay Co., If you have any questions concerning this closure, please contact their Project Manager, Chuck Grabner, at 412-779-8354. | 9/8/2019 15:41:59 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Friday, August 9, 2019 | Meeting With Richard CaponiTime: 10:30 A.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County BuildingMeeting With PWSA LeadershipTime: 11:00 A.M.Location: Mayor's Conference Room, City-County BuildingMeeting With Delegation From Cote d'IvoireTime: 1:00 P.M.Location: Mayor's Conference Room, City-County BuildingMeeting With Bill BenterTime: 2:00 P.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County Building | 9/8/2019 09:44:42 |
| Pittsburgh Safe Driving Pledge | PITTSBURGH, PA(August 12, 2019) Today, the Department of Mobility and Infrastructure announced the launch of the Pittsburgh Safe Driving Pledge. The Safe Driving Pledge is a resident-led and empowered traffic calming and safety initiative. Drivers taking the Pledge commit to limit their vehicle speed to posted speed limits and stop for pedestrians wherever they travel to make our neighborhoods more safe, livable and appealing; reduce traffic deaths and serious injury; and reflect Pittsburgh’s core values of community care and neighborliness.   Mayor William Peduto, PPS Superintendent Anthony Hamlet, and community leaders came together to launch the Pittsburgh Safe Driving Pledge. The event kicked off a two-week signing campaign to encourage participation at community and neighborhood events across the city. The Pittsburgh Safe Driving Pledge is part of the international “Neighborhood Pace Car” program. Similar programs exist in Columbus, OH, Toronto, ON, Atlanta, GA, and Boston, MA. More information on the city’s campaign can be found HERE. Residents, workers or visitors who sign the pledge will receive a vehicle magnet and/or window cling to visibly identify their vehicle as a neighborhood pace car keeping the speed of vehicle traffic on the street to the safe posted limit.  Each year, hundreds of Pittsburgh residents are injured in traffic crashes, many associated with speeding. Redesigning streets for traffic calming is a slow process affecting only a small number of streets. The Safe Driving campaign will bring traffic calming to every street of the city, with motorists who have taken the pledge leading the way. For questions, please contact the Department of Mobility and Infrastructure at domi@pittsburghpa.gov.  | 12/8/2019 12:19:40 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Monday, August 12, 2019 | Department Of City Planning 2020 Budget MeetingTime: 11:00 A.M.Location: Mayor's Conference Room, City-County BuildingDepartment Of Innovation &amp; Performance 2020 Budget MeetingTime: 1:00 P.M.Location: Mayor's Conference Room, City-County BuildingCommission On Human Relations 2020 Budget MeetingTime: 2:00 P.M.Location: Mayor's Conference Room, City-County BuildingDepartment Of Mobility &amp; Infrastructure 2020 Budget MeetingTime: 3:00 P.M.Location: Mayor's Conference Room, City-County BuildingLaunching Department Of Mobility &amp; Infrastructure Safe Driving Pledge With School District Of Pittsburgh OfficialsTime: 4:30 P.M.Location: Arsenal Middle School, Lower Lawrenceville | 12/8/2019 09:25:10 |
| Media Advisory: Mayor Peduto to Join Department Of Mobility &amp; Infrastructure Safe Driving Pledge With School District Of Pittsburgh Officials | Media AdvisoryPITTSBURGH, PA (August 12, 2019) Mayor William Peduto will join Department of Mobility &amp; Infrastructure and School District leaders this afternoon to launch Safe Driving Pledge.  WHO: Mayor William Peduto, Department of Mobility &amp; Infrastructure Director Karina Ricks, PPS Superintendent Dr. Anthony Hamlet, PPS Director of Transportation, PPS Arsenal PreK-5 Principal Ruthie Rea, and PPS Arsenal 6-8 Principal Patti Camper  WHAT: Launch of Pittsburgh Safe Driving Pledge  WHERE: Arsenal Middle School, 220 40th Street, Lower Lawrenceville  WHEN: 4:30 p.m., Monday, August 12, 2019 | 12/8/2019 11:44:13 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Tuesday, August 13, 2019 | Rivers Casino Hotel GroundbreakingTime: 10:00 A.M.Location: Rivers Casino, ChateauDepartment Of Finance 2020 Budget MeetingTime: 11:00 A.M.Location: Mayor's Conference Room, City-County BuildingPresenting Proclamation For Pittsburgh Style WeekTime: 12:00 P.M.Location: Mayor's Conference Room, City-County BuildingOffice Of Municipal Investigations 2020 Budget MeetingTime: 2:00 P.M.Location: Mayor's Conference Room, City-County BuildingDepartment Of Parks &amp; Recreation 2020 Budget Meetin gTime: 3:00 P.M.Location: Mayor's Conference Room, City-County Building | 13/8/2019 08:39:50 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Wednesday, August 14, 2019 | No public schedule. | 14/8/2019 09:33:01 |
| First Annual Energy Benchmarking Report of Municipal Facilities Released | PITTSBURGH, PA (August 7, 2019) The City of Pittsburgh Planning Department’s Sustainability and Resilience Division has released the first annual energy benchmarking report for municipal buildings owned and operated by the City of Pittsburgh. This information will assist prioritization of investments in the City’s municipal building stock. By revisiting the progress yearly, the City will be able to track the impact of implemented energy saving projects on overall energy and emission reduction and create accountability for the City’s actions. Initial findings include: - The City-County Building at 414 Grant Street stands out as the highest energy consumer due to its size and the age of its systems. Actions are being proposed to create energy savings in 2020, including LED lighting retrofit and calking windows to eliminate cold drafts. To amplify those savings, the City is evaluating solutions to optimize both the building’s systems and electricity demand to control utility spending in an increasingly changing energy landscape.    - Most of the City facilities’ EUIs (energy use intensity) are high or average compared to the national median of buildings of the same use type, indicating some potentially great opportunities for energy savings.    - The City spent $2,700,000 to operate the facilities analyzed in this report. If the City reduces energy use of these buildings by 50% now, it would save at least $1,350,000 every year.    - Critical facilities such as 24/7 EMS facilities have a wide range of energy uses and EUIs. The Sustainability and Resilience Division is investigating further to identify critical loads of these facilities to better understand why the energy uses vary so much between buildings of similar size and use. This analysis also will include sizing of solar panels and batteries that would allow these facilities to operate fully even during power outages due to weather events.   The report is available here.In October 2018, Pittsburgh City Council approved the Pittsburgh Climate Action Plan 3.0, under which the City seeks to achieve dramatic greenhouse gas reductions by 2050 in an effort to address climate change and create a stronger, healthier, and more resilient Pittsburgh.  Under this plan, established by Mayor William Peduto, the City aims to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 50 percent by 2030, and 80 percent by 2050. It also seeks to reduce energy and water use by 50 percent by 2030.  To reach these goals, the City must address buildings, which currently account for 80 percent of the city’s carbon emissions and for a significant portion of city energy use.  To that end, City Council passed an energy and water benchmarking and transparency ordinance requiring all non-residential buildings over 50,000 square feet to share their energy and water consumption data with the City through ENERGY STAR Portfolio Manager by June 1st, 2018 and yearly thereafter. The City of Pittsburgh – through the benchmarking report – is leading the way by tracking energy use in municipal buildings with an eye on how to better improve the City’s building energy performance. This report will be followed by the online publication of the  compliance status of buildings for 2017 and 2018, as well as an overview report of energy use of the public and private building stock  followed by the publication of data on by the Western Pennsylvania Regional Data Center.  More information about the ordinance, how to comply, and the list of private buildings that must comply can be found at: https://pittsburghpa.gov/dcp/building-benchmarking. | 15/8/2019 09:10:14 |
| Mayor William Peduto Public Schedule - Thursday, August 15, 2019 | PITTSBURGH, PA (August 15, 2019) Mayor William Peduto is in New York today to speak at the NationSwell Council Social Impact Event. Past NationSwell speakers include Howard Schultz, Governors Deval Patrick, Bryan Stevenson, David Brooks, Wendy Kopp, Mayor Peter Buttigieg, Governor John Hickenlooper, and David Axelrod, and more.  NationSwell honored Mayor Peduto in 2018 at their Mobility, Opportunity + Dynamic Summit with their NationSwell Innovation Award for his leadership and Pittsburgh’s achievement. The NationSwell event will focus on developing and scaling solutions to drive inclusive growth for all Americans. Mayor Peduto will be speaking about Pittsburgh’s story – the lessons therein for other cities around the country and the opportunities for collaboration and further progress that are ahead.   NationSwell is a social enterprise dedicated to accelerating the solutions and innovations that will renew America.  NationSwell does this work through their digital media platform reaching 30 million people per month.  Thursday, August 15, 2019NationSwell ReceptionTime: 6:30 P.M. Location: Project Farm House, Manhattan NationSwell Conversation &amp; QuestionsTime: 7:00 P.M. Location: Project Farm House, Manhattan | 15/8/2019 12:09:09 |
| Mayor William Peduto Public Schedule - Friday, August 16, 2019 | No public schedule. | 16/8/2019 09:27:29 |
| Official Launch of Pilot STEM Program Provides Students with Career Experience and Opportunity | PITTSBURGH, PA (August 19, 2019) This morning Mayor William Peduto joined Housing Authority City of Pittsburgh, Phase 4 Learning Inc., Allegheny County Housing Authority, and Everyone On to celebrate the launch of "Bridges to Tech. This 10-week STEAM (Science, Technology, Engineering, Arts, Mathematics) pilot-program “Bridges to Tech”  will host 20 youth in Pittsburgh at the Best Buy Teen Tech Center. A Best Buy sponsored afterschool curriculum taught by staff from Phase 4 Learning, Inc. with an emphasis on videography, digital editing, robotics, and sound recording.To make the program more accessible, participants were given bus passes and also awarded a Google Chromebook upon completion of the program.  These youth used their skills learned from Bridges to Tech at summer internships with Best Buy through the City and Partner 4 Work’s Learn and Earn program, and many also received Google IT certificates.   Students interested in pursuing a college degree can receive free SAT tutoring through a partnership with College Board and Everyone On. All participating students will have SAT test fees waived and are provided scholarship opportunities. Bridges to Tech is part of a national initiative, ConnectHomeUSA, which seeks to remove barriers caused by low digital literacy and lack of internet access by providing HUD-assisted residents with the skills they need to succeed in today’s digital age. ConnectHomePGH is led by EveryoneOn, a non-profit that creates social and economic opportunity through connecting everyone to the internet.  “As our nation and city move toward rapid job growth in the technology sector, it is important, now more than ever, to invest in our youth so they can gain the skills and opportunity to achieve their highest potential. Bridges to Tech and our partners are an example of how we are supporting our future generations,” said Mayor William Peduto. “The Allegheny County Housing Authority is excited to partner with PHASE 4, the Housing Authority of the City of Pittsburgh, and the Office of Mayor Peduto for the Bridges to Tech program. Helping to end the digital divide is something that we are greatly invested in as an organization, and one of the best ways to do that is to reach the youth in our communities and make sure that they have access to the technology that will help them in all areas of life. We are looking forward to all of the wonderful accomplishments this program will produce!” said Beverly Moore."Bridges to Tech and, on a broader level, the entire ConnectHome initiative are indicative of HACP's commitment to digital equity. We're firmly committed to providing all HACP households with access to the tools they need to become self-sufficient and, in today's world, that means computers, accessible high-speed Internet and digital literacy programming," said Caster D. Binion.“PHASE 4 is proud to partner with Best Buy to bring the Bridges to Tech Program to Pittsburgh.  To witness the smiles and enjoyment of the kids as they explore and learn is priceless.  The kids are our future; it is up to us to provide them with exposure and opportunities to build a great life,” saidTerrie Suica-Reed."We are thrilled to be collaborating with Phase 4, the Office of Mayor Peduto, and the public housing authorities to ensure these students gain critical skills and information that will open new opportunities for them. Thank you to Best Buy for making Bridges to Tech possible for the youth of Pittsburgh! We look forward to expanding this program here and in other cities," said Norma Fernandez. | 19/8/2019 13:09:48 |
| UPDATED:Media Advisory: Mayor William Peduto Will Join Department of Public Safety and CitiParks To Recoginze A Few Of Our CitiParks Lifeguards and EMS | Media AdvisoryPITTSBURGH, PA (August 19, 2019) Mayor William Peduto will join Department of Public Safety and CitiParks to recognize a few of our CitiParks Lifeguards and EMS staffers who engaged in some life saving actions this summer. WHO: Mayor William Peduto, Department of Public Safety Wendell Hissrich, CitiParks Aquartic Supervisor Shelly Terlecki, and Lifeguard Staff of Sue Murray and Highland Park Pools WHAT: Recognizing Lifeguards &amp; EMS who saved lives this summer.   WHERE: Mayor’s Conference Room  WHEN: 3:30 p.m., Monday, August 19, 2019 | 19/8/2019 12:39:09 |
| Mayor William Peduto Public Schedule - Monday, August 19, 2019 | Bridges To Tech EventTime: 11:00 A.M.Location: Best Buy Teen Tech Center, ShadysideMeeting With Bree LeyerTime: 12:00 P.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County BuildingSchool District Of Pittsburgh Back To School CelebrationTime: 1:00 P.M.Location: Pittsburgh Obama Academy, East LibertyRecognition Ceremony For Pittsburgh Lifeguards &amp; EMT's For Life Saving Actions This SummerTime: 3:30 P.M.Location: Mayor's Conference Room, City-County Building | 19/8/2019 09:54:29 |
| New Elizabeth Park Public Art Project Completed | PITTSBURGH, PA (August 20, 2019) The Public Art and Civic Design Division, in collaboration with Trying Together and the Playful Pittsburgh Collaborative, are pleased to present Time Travelers, a new public art project in the recently renovated Elizabeth Street Park in the Hazelwood neighborhood of Pittsburgh. This vibrant mural by artists Edith Abeyta and Sandy Kessler Kaminski explores the Hazelwood community’s connection with time, place, and the continuous journey of being part of a neighborhood. On January 14th, 2019, the Public Art and Civic Design Division and the Office of Management and Budget released a Request for Proposals to solicit artists, artist collectives, and designers for a mural on the Elizabeth Street embankment facing the park. Applicants were asked to propose concepts that encourage education, playfulness, and interaction. A City Committee evaluated the projects under a scoring system that took into consideration the overall concept of the project with regard to creativity, innovation, aesthetics, and material presence; the applicant’s qualifications, experience, and references; their connection to the neighborhood; and the cost proposal. The highest score went to Abeyta and Kaminski, who were awarded the commission. Abeyta and Kaminski’s vibrant design references a game board and depicts the historical and contemporary journey of Hazelwood and its residents. Community members were asked to contribute significant events and key concepts from the history of the neighborhood to be incorporated into the design, which traces the community’s story from the days of the First Nations through the present day. Located on the corner of Roma Way and Gloster Street, adjacent to a KaBOOM! community-built playground, the Elizabeth Street Park was revitalized thanks to a grant from The Heinz Endowments. The location of the park was selected to help bridge the division created by the train tracks that split Hazelwood. The Playful Pittsburgh Collaborative and Trying Together worked in partnership with the City of Pittsburgh’s Department of Public Works, Department of Mobility and Infrastructure, and the office of Councilman Corey O’Connor.  The Playful Pittsburgh Collaborative and Trying Together will be celebrating the official opening of the Elizabeth Street Park in Hazelwood on Wednesday, August 28, from 5pm – 7pm, at Elizabeth Street Park. The festivities will include a mural unveiling and ribbon cutting ceremony, featuring music from the Center of Life’s KRUNK program, food, games, and Hazelwood-relevant information tables. For questions about the public art project, contact:                                                       Tony Cavalline  Public Art and Civic Design Division                                                       Department of City Planning, City of Pittsburgh                                       (p) 412.255.8996                                                                                       (e) anthony.cavalline@pittsburghpa.govFor questions about Playful Pittsburgh, contact: Sarah Siplak Director, Playful Pittsburgh Collaborative (p) 412.421.3889 x 115 (e) sarahs@tryingtogether.org | 20/8/2019 12:45:35 |
| Mayor William Peduto Public Schedule - Tuesday, August 20, 2019 | Meeting With Lisa HurmTime: 11:30 A.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County BuildingMeeting With Carrie ManninoTime: 12:30 P.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County BuildingMeeting With Anna HollisTime: 2:00 P.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County Building | 20/8/2019 10:15:47 |
| Chatham Street Nightly Closures | PITTSBURGH, PA (August 21, 2019) The City of Pittsburgh Department of Mobility and Infrastructure advises that Chatham Street will be closed overnight Wednesday August 21, 2019 and Thursday August 22, 2019 between the hours of 8:00 p.m. to 6:00 a.m.The restrictions are necessary to allow the contractor to perform utility work across Chatham Street. Pedestrian Detour will be along Centre Avenue to Sixth Avenue to Webster Avenue. Traffic will be detoured to Sixth Avenue and can access Centre Avenue or Webster Avenue depending on the direction of travel. When travelling through the work area, use caution and expect delays.The work is being performed by JB Fay Co., If you have any questions concerning this closure, please contact their Project Manager, Chuck Grabner, at 412-779-8354. | 21/8/2019 09:19:26 |
| Mayor William Peduto Public Schedule - Wednesday, August 21, 2019 | Meeting With Covestro Global Financial Officer Thomas ToepferTime: 11:30 A.M.Location: Covestro Campus, Allegheny County, PALaunch Of BankWork$ ProgramTime: 2:00 P.M.Location: Jeron X. Grayson Community Center, Crawford-RobertsWelcoming Delegation From DaNang Vietnam To PittsburghTime: 3:30 P.M.Location: Mayor's Conference Room, City-County BuildingReception For Visiting Delegation From DaNang, VietnamTime: 5:00 P.M.Location: The Benter Foundation, Central Business District | 21/8/2019 09:09:38 |
| Media Advisory: Mayor Peduto to Honor Retired Steelworkers President Leo Gerard with Key to City | Media AdvisoryPITTSBURGH, PA (August 22, 2019) This morning Mayor William Peduto will hold a ceremony honoring retired Steelworkers President Leo Gerard with the Key to the City.  WHERE: Mayor’s Conference Room, City-County Building   WHEN: 10:00 a.m., Thursday, August 22, 2019 | 22/8/2019 08:51:48 |
| Mayor William Peduto Public Schedule - Thursday, August 22, 2019 | Presenting Key To The City Of Pittsburgh To Recently Retired Steelworkers President Leo GerardTime: 10:00 A.M.Location: Mayor's Conference Room, City-County BuildingLyft's Grocery Access Program LaunchTime: 11:00 A.M.Location: Bedford Hope Center, Bedford DwellingsOffice Of Management &amp; Budget 2020 Budget MeetingTime: 1:00 P.M.Location: Mayor's Conference Room, City-County BuildingOffice Of Equity 2020 Budget MeetingTime: 2:30 P.M.Location: Mayor's Conference Room, City-County Building27th Annual Mayor Bob O'Connor Cookie CruiseTime: 5:00 P.M.Location: Gateway Clipper Fleet, South Shore | 22/8/2019 08:55:36 |
| Grandview Avenue Platforms, Sidewalks, and Railing Repairs | PITTSBURGH, PA (August 22, 2019) The City of Pittsburgh’s Department of Mobility and Infrastructure and Department of Public Works are announcing the beginning of an $805,363 reconstruction project along Grandview Avenue in Mount Washington.   The Department of Mobility and Infrastructure began restoration Monday, August 19, 2019, on three elevated sidewalk platforms along Grandview Avenue in Mount Washington. The work will be performed by the City’s contractor, A. Merante Contracting, Inc. The work will take place in the area between Ulysses Street and Maple Terrace. The project will replace the precast concrete slabs and sidewalks, perform concrete repairs, and clean and paint the railings on the platform areas. The project is estimated to be completed by November 27, 2019, weather permitting.   The Department of Public Works is set to begin work along Grandview Avenue on Tuesday, September 3, 2019. Approximately 1,400 feet of railing from Republic Street to the Trimont will be scraped and prepared to be painted black electrostatically. Vigliotti Landscape &amp; Construction will perform the work. The project is estimated to take 4 to 6 weeks, weather permitting.   Pedestrians will be detoured to the opposite side of the street throughout construction. There will be minimal lane disruption. During certain times of the process, there may be temporary lane closures on P.J. McArdle Roadway to ensure the safety of travelers; these closures will be announced in advance.   “I want to thank the administration and our City departments for making these investments a priority. I also want to thank the community for their patience as we work towards a comprehensive plan for Grandview. Grandview Avenue is a scenic treasure of our city and one of the gems in District 2,” said Councilwoman Kail-Smith.  “I want to thank all of those involved – the departments, Councilwoman Kail-Smith, and the residents  – for their dedication to ensuring these projects got off the ground. Grandview Avenue is a treasure to our city and our region, and we will continue to work with our partners to preserve this icon for generations to come,”  said Mayor William Peduto | 22/8/2019 16:00:01 |
| Larimer Avenue Bridge Concrete Repairs | PITTSBURGH, PA (August 23, 2019) The City of Pittsburgh’s Department of Mobility and Infrastructure is announcing the beginning of maintenance work on the Larimer Avenue Bridge crossing Washington Boulevard  Work is scheduled to start Monday, August 26, 2019, through September 30, 2019.  Hours of operation will be Monday through Friday, 9:00 a.m. to 3:00 p.m.  Restrictions will occur in both directions in all lanes, on Washington Boulevard between Negley Run Road and Frankstown Avenue.  Construction will be limited to only one lane at a time so that through traffic in both directions will be maintained.  The Department’s personnel are working closely with the contractor to expedite this project and avoid as much inconvenience to drivers as possible. If you have any questions regarding this project, please contact Eric Setzler, P.E., Chief Engineer at (412) 255-2883. | 23/8/2019 15:23:16 |
| Mayor William Peduto Public Schedule - Friday, August 23, 2019 | Meeting With Richard GarlandTime: 12:00 P.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County BuildingMeeting With Lucas PiattTime: 1:00 P.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County BuildingMeeting With Richard EnglerTime: 3:00 P.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County BuildingPhone Call With Gregg MoserTime: 3:30 P.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County Building | 23/8/2019 09:04:13 |
| City Adds Additional Capacity to Address Climate and Energy Needs | PITTSBURGH, PA (August 23, 2019) The City of Pittsburgh Department of City Planning is proud to announce the addition of two new members and the promotion of another staff member in the Department’s Sustainability and Resilience Division.  The positions will work together to support energy efficiency in municipal and commercial buildings, integrate the planning and development of district scale and renewable energy strategies for the city operations and projects within the City; and help coordinate the implementation of the city’s climate action plan. “It’s critical to add this additional capacity to support the advancement of energy efficiency in municipal operations and focus efforts on addressing the challenges of climate change. We’re fortunate to leverage resources from organizations like the National Resources Defense Council and Bloomberg Philanthropies to help us accelerate our efforts to provide cleaner sources of energy and mobility. Concurrently, these positions will help private and other public sector partners realize the environmental and economic benefits associated with energy efficiency and clean energy,” said Mayor William Peduto. Flore Marion will be serving in the role of Energy Advisor. Flore Marion joined the City of Pittsburgh’s Sustainability and Resilience Division in 2017 as the Energy Advisor through the City Energy Project. Her primary role is to implement the benchmarking ordinance and develop a strategy to achieve the Pittsburgh 2030 goals set by Mayor William Peduto with regards to buildings and energy use.  Prior to this position, she was a Senior Researcher in the Center for Building Performance and Diagnostics at Carnegie Mellon University, where a subset of her work pertained to her current role with the City of Pittsburgh: She focused on stakeholder engagement for energy data access through the Energy Data Accelerator, a DOE Better Buildings Initiative, and she researched methods to leverage energy benchmarking data to improve the US building stock.  Flore holds a Masters in Sustainable Building Sciences from University Paul Sabatier, France and is a LEED AP BD+C. Will Bernstein will serve as Climate Advisor through the American Cities Climate Challenge, a program supported by Bloomberg Philanthropies and the National Resources Defense Council (NRDC). His salary is fully paid by a grant. Will Bernstein has spent over a decade working in public policy and community development in Pittsburgh. Will has served recently as a public policy consultant with a focus on equity and good government, and before that as a policy analyst with the Allegheny Conference on Community Development, where he specialized in community development, transportation and healthcare. Will has a Master of Science in Public Policy and Management from Carnegie Mellon University’s Heinz College, and a Bachelor of Arts in History and Philosophy from Brown University. As Pittsburgh's Climate Advisor, Will will be working to advance the City's Climate Challenge goals, including the reduction of building-related carbon emissions and supporting the implementation of high priority bike and pedestrian infrastructure Sarah Yeager is being promoted from the position of Resilience Analyst to be the city’s first Energy Planner. Sarah received her bachelor’s degree in Environmental Engineering from St. Francis University in Loreto, PA. She volunteers for Engineers Beyond Boarders, Environmental Water Resources Institute and the American Society for Civil Engineers. In her new role, Sarah will support the planning and integration of renewable and district scale strategies for municipal projects and new developments.  Sarah will also be helping to manage the city’s procurement strategies related to renewable power.   Contact:  Grant Ervin, Assistant Director, Division of Sustainability and Resilience – Department of City Planning ( grant.ervin@pittsburghpa.gov ) | 23/8/2019 10:43:58 |
| Mayor William Peduto Public Schedule - Saturday, August 24, 2019 | Presenting Proclamation at Groceria MeranteTime: 12:00 PMLocation: 3454 Bates Street80th Anniversary of Moore Park CelebrationTime: 12:30 PMLocation: Moore Park, BrooklineHomewood PRIDE Pop-UpTime: 1:00 PMLocation: Homewood YMCALincoln Rans HomegameTime: 1:30 PMLocation: Chadwick Park | 24/8/2019 11:50:01 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Monday, August 26, 2019 | No public events scheduled | 26/8/2019 10:19:49 |
| Honoring Survivors and Revivers on International Overdose Awareness Day | PITTSBURGH, PA (August 26, 2019) Prevention Point Pittsburgh and the City of Pittsburgh’s Office of the Mayor are pleased to present the second annual “Honoring Survivors &amp; Revivers” event to mark International Overdose Awareness Day by uplifting the lives of those who have survived an overdose and those who have revived someone experiencing an overdose.On Tuesday, August 27th from 2-4:30 p.m. on the portico of the City-County Building in downtown Pittsburgh, speakers will be sharing their stories of surviving and reviving, local organizations will provide resources and information, and naloxone training and kits will be available for free to those interested courtesy of the Allegheny County Health Department. The event will be emceed by Alice Bell of Prevention Point Pittsburgh with confirmed speakers including: Kevin Kelley (President of the Turtle Creek Volunteer Fire Department), Nique (professional cook and aspiring professional chef), Dana Gold (COO of Jewish Family and Community Services), Kenneth Aquiline (Office of Representative Sara Innamorato), and Simon Taxel (crew chief of Pittsburgh Bureau of Emergency Medical Services). This event is an opportunity for the community to learn how they can support efforts to combat the opioid overdose crisis, promote harm reduction, and reduce stigma in care to those with substance use disorders.The event is sponsored by Staunton Farm Foundation, Allies for Health + Wellbeing, UPMC PACT Clinic, Giant Eagle Specialty Pharmacy, Maitri Medicinals, UPMC Health Plan, UPMC Community Care Behavioral Health, Jewish Healthcare Foundation, Accessible Recovery Services, Inc., Coordinated Care Network Pharmacy, Asti's South Hills Pharmacy, and Allegheny County Health Department.About Prevention Point PittsburghPrevention Point Pittsburgh was founded in 1995 when James Crow and Caroline Acker, along with a handful of dedicated volunteers, began providing needle exchange services once a week on a Hill District street corner to prevent the spread of injection-related blood-borne disease. In April 2002, PPP established a county-authorized needle exchange site in East Liberty. Since that time, over 5,000 injection drug users have enrolled into our program for critical prevention services. In addition to needle exchange services, PPP has grown to include comprehensive case management services, assistance to drug treatment, individualized risk-reduction counseling, health education, condom and bleach distribution, overdose prevention with Narcan prescription, and free HIV, Hepatitis C, and STI screening in collaboration with Allies for Health + Wellbeing, formerly the Pittsburgh AIDS Task Force. For more information, visit www.pppgh.org.Honoring Survivors and Revivers: International Overdose Awareness Day 2019https://www.facebook.com/events/678566665950343/Tuesday, August 27, 20192-4:30 p.m.City-County Building Portico414 Grant St.Pittsburgh, PA 15219Contacts:Katie Houston                                        Laura DrogowskiAdministrative Coordinator                    Critical Communities Initiatives ManagerPrevention Point Pittsburgh                   Office of the Mayor, City of Pittsburgh 412.247.3404                                         412.742.2003katie@pppgh.org                                   laura.drogowski@pittsburghpa.gov | 26/8/2019 13:09:19 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Tuesday, August 27, 2019 | No public events scheduled | 27/8/2019 08:33:39 |
| Temporary Road Closures Necessary for Grandview Avenue Improvements | PITTSBURGH, PA (August 27, 2019) The City of Pittsburgh’s Department of Mobility and Infrastructure is announcing traffic restrictions as part of the repairs on Grandview Avenue sidewalks and platforms 1, 3, and 5.There will be temporary lane closures on P.J. MCArdle Roadway as needed for the duration of the Grandview Avenue repair project. These closures will be limited to Monday through Friday between the hours of 9:00 am and 3:00 pm in 15 minute increments as necessary. Department personnel are working closely with the contractor to minimize the inconvenience to drivers as much as possible.If you have any questions regarding this project, please contact Patrick Bopp, Project Manager at (412) 255-0868 or patrick.bopp@pittsburghpa.gov. | 27/8/2019 15:56:36 |
| City Offices and Citiparks Facilities Closed, Refuse Collection Postponed For Labor Day | PITTSBURGH, PA (August 28, 2019) City of Pittsburgh offices and Healthy Active Living Centers will be closed on Monday, September 2, 2019, in observance of Labor Day. Six regional outdoor pools will open at 1:00 p.m. on Labor Day with early closure of 5:45 p.m.  Department of Public Works advises that refuse, bulk waste or recycling collection on Monday, September 2, 2019, will be delayed one day.   If your scheduled day of collection is Monday, September 2, you will be serviced on Tuesday, September 3.  If your collection day is Tuesday, September 3, you will be serviced on Wednesday, September 4 and so on through Saturday, September 7.    There will not be an ECS&amp;R, Electronic and Household Hazardous Waste Collection drop-off  scheduled on September 1, 2019. OUTDOOR SWIMMING POOLS - 6 Regional Outdoor Pools open for the Labor Day Weekend   - Highland Park, Jack Stack, Moore, Ream, Schenley Park, and Sue Murray   - Labor Day Weekend Hours (Saturday 8/31 through Monday 9/2) 1 p.m. to 5:45 p.m.   SPRAY PARKS - 10 a.m. to 8 p.m.   - East Hills—Noon to 6 p.m.   HEALTHY ACTIVE LIVING CENTERS (Senior Centers) - Closed Labor Day—Monday, September 2, 2019   RECREATION CENTERS - Closed Labor Day Weekend—Saturday, 8/31, Sunday, 9/1 and Monday, 9/2   - Summer Hours ended on 8/25/19—all Rec Centers are operating on their regularly scheduled hours.   MELLON TENNIS BUBBLE - Closed Labor Day, Monday, September 2, 2019 | 28/8/2019 10:25:47 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Wednesday, August 28, 2019 | No public events scheduled | 28/8/2019 08:16:10 |
| Launch of Heart of a Hero Campaign | PITTSBURGH, PA (August 28, 2019) The City of Pittsburgh, the American College of Lifestyle Medicine (ACLM), insurance leader Highmark, and plant-based nutrition company Engine 2 are partnering to launch a month-long health challenge for City of Pittsburgh employees and their families called Heart of a Hero Campaign.   The event kicks off on September 4th, 2019, at the Union Project with a keynote talk and cooking demonstration by Rip Esselstyn, a former Austin, Texas firefighter turned health ambassador and best-selling author. City employees and their families will then be invited to take the Seven-Day Rescue Challenge and eat a heart-healthy plant-based diet for one solid week, with a full menu of resources, recipes, online coaching, and support.  Each participant will be provided with before-and-after biometric screenings to measure their weight, blood pressure, cholesterol, and fasting blood sugar. The challenge aims to demonstrate that there is a significant and measurable improvement that can occur in as little as one week. Typical seven-day results include weight loss and improvement in cholesterol levels and blood pressure.  This initiative aligns with the City of Pittsburgh’s Climate Action Plan 3.0. The initiative is to lower meat consumption to 50% by 2030.    Heart of a Hero Launch Event:Date: Wednesday, September 4, 2019 Location: Union Project - 801 N Negley Ave, Pittsburgh, PA 15206 Time: 6:30 P.M. – 9:00 P.M. | 28/8/2019 10:31:39 |
| Intersection on Second Avenue to Have Alternating Traffic | PITTSBURGH, PA (August 28, 2019) The Allegheny Department of Public Works announced that there will be alternating traffic on Second Avenue at the road’s intersection with the Philip Murray (South Tenth Street) Bridge in the City of the Pittsburgh from 7 p.m. on Friday, September 6, 2019 until 6 a.m. on Monday, September 9. The restriction is required for installation of new traffic signals as part an ongoing bridge rehabilitation project.While the work is being done, drivers should expect delays and be alert for changing traffic patterns. Police and flaggers will be directing traffic from 7 p.m. to 11 p.m. on Friday, September 6; 6 a.m. to 7 p.m. Saturday, September 7; and 6 a.m. to 7 p.m. on Sunday, September 8.The work coincides with a previously announced closure of the Philip Murray (South Tenth Street) Bridge that is needed for milling and paving.The $21 million bridge rehabilitation project is being conducted by the American Bridge Company of Coraopolis and in conjunction with funding from the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania and the Federal Highway Administration. | 28/8/2019 14:43:51 |
| UPDATED: Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Thursday, August 29, 2019 | Presenting Mayor Sophie Masloff Employee Of The Month AwardTime: 11:00 A.M.Location: Mayor's Conference Room, City-County BuildingMeeting With Councilman Rev. Ricky BurgessTime: 12:00 P.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County BuildingSpeaking At Press Event On Lead Levels With Governor Tom Wolf &amp; Allegheny County Executive Rich FitzgeraldTime: 2:00 P.M.Location: Children's Hospital of Pittsburgh of UPMC, Central LawrencevilleWeekly Scheduling MeetingTime: 2:30 P.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County Building | 29/8/2019 08:00:49 |
| City Crews Remove Debris from West End Stream | PITTSBURGH, PA (August 30, 2019) Crews from the Department of Public Works on Thursday removed an estimated 20 tons of debris, trees and vegetation from the banks of a stream by Saw Mill Run Boulevard in the West End. The debris has factored in flooding in the neighborhood. It was removed from the banks of the stream, near Saw Mill Run and McKnight Street. A second phase of debris removal will follow, which will involve access to the stream or access to adjacent parcels to reach other materials. The City is in talks with the Army Corps of Engineers to address related flooding issues that affected the area after a 2018 storm. The debris removal was performed by DPW crews including workers from its Forestry Division. "I want to thank the administration, the Department of Public Works, and my fellow elected officials for focusing on flooding in the West End. I and other stakeholders, including Mayor Peduto’s office, have been on site and in meetings over a half dozen times with the community over the past two years and have seen the impacts firsthand,” said Councilwoman Theresa Kail-Smith. “Removing years of debris from the stream was the first step and I look forward to working on longer term solutions so our residents are safe and their property is protected." | 30/8/2019 13:19:31 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Friday, August 30, 2019 | No public events scheduled | 30/8/2019 08:22:27 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Monday, September 2, 2019 | Attending Annual Labor Day ParadeTime: 10:00 A.M.Location: Central Business District | 2/9/2019 09:24:51 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Tuesday, September 3, 2019 | Sharing &amp; Caring Inc. Boat RideTime: 10:30 A.M.Location: Gateway Clipper Fleet - Station Square, South ShoreMeeting With Chris SandvigTime: 3:30 P.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County BuildingMeeting With Allegheny County Executive Rich FitzgeraldTime: 4:30 P.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County Building | 3/9/2019 07:21:20 |
| Chatham Street Downtown to Close for I-579 Cap Project | PITTSBURGH, PA (September 3, 2019) The City of Pittsburgh Department of Mobility and Infrastructure advises that the northbound lane of Chatham Street between Bigelow Boulevard and Centre Avenue Downtown will be closed long term beginning the week of September 9, 2019 at 7 a.m. and remain closed until December 2019.The restriction is necessary to allow the contractor to perform various construction activities such as excavating behind an existing retaining wall at Abutment 1, installing temporary shoring, and constructing a new abutment and park area for the I-579 Cap Project.      Traffic will be detoured along Centre Ave. to Sixth Avenue and then to Bigelow Blvd/Webster Avenue.  The southbound lane of Chatham Street will remain open.When travelling through the work area, use caution and expect delays.A ramp from northbound I-579 to 7th Avenue Downtown will close on Friday for the same project. This PennDOT press release details the closure and associated detours.The work is being performed by JB Fay Co., If you have any questions concerning the Chatham Street closure, please contact their Project Manager, Chuck Grabner, at 412-779-8354. | 3/9/2019 11:38:47 |
| Peduto Administration Legislation Requires New City Buildings to be Net Zero Energy Efficient | PITTSBURGH, PA (September 3, 2019) Legislation being introduced today by Mayor William Peduto’s administration would require all new or renovated City government buildings to be net-zero, meaning they are so efficient that they produce as much energy as they consume. Buildings are the largest end-users of energy in the world, and Pittsburgh and other cities seeking to fight the earth’s climate change crisis are seeking new ways – such as net-zero energy efficiency – to significantly address the challenge.  The City of Pittsburgh’s Climate Action Plan 3.0 aims to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 50 percent by 2030, and 80 percent by 2050. It also seeks to reduce energy and water use by 50 percent by 2030. To meet those goals, the City must address buildings, which currently account for 80 percent of the City’s carbon emissions and a significant portion of the City’s energy use and spending.   “Pittsburgh is taking real steps to meet its energy goals, and moving to net-zero construction will be one of the most meaningful and impactful actions we’ve ever taken. It is not only the right move for the planet, but for the city’s budget too,” Mayor Peduto said. The proposed ordinance – being introduced to Pittsburgh City Council today – would cover all construction of new buildings on City owned property, and all major renovations of existing buildings on City owned property.  It defines net-zero energy buildings as those that are “designed and constructed to be highly efficient and to produce enough energy through renewable resources to offset its energy consumption on an annual basis. A net-zero energy building could also be defined as a net-zero energy ready building that includes on-site or local renewable energy.” The ordinance includes exemptions for renovations of buildings that are being decommissioned or sold within five years; emergency renovations; short-term buildings (such as trailers); or other exemptions requested by the Mayor and City Council. A public hearing will be scheduled on the bill. In a related effort, the Planning Department’s Sustainability and Resilience Division last month released the first annual energy benchmarking report for municipal buildings owned and operated by the City. It followed adoption of an energy and water benchmarking and transparency ordinance requiring all non-residential buildings over 50,000 square feet to share their energy and water consumption data with the City by June 1, 2018 and yearly thereafter.  Last month’s report will be followed by the online publication of the compliance status of buildings for 2017 and 2018, as well as an overview report of energy use of the public and private building stock  followed by the publication of data on by the Western Pennsylvania Regional Data Center. | 3/9/2019 09:58:55 |
| Market Square to Transform Into World Square | DOWNTOWN PITTSBURGH, PA (September 3 2019) Across three Friday Evenings in September, Market Square will be alive with sights, sounds and tastes of the international and immigrant communities of the greater Pittsburgh Area! “World Square – Welcoming All of Pittsburgh’s Neighbors,” is a free celebration with a global outlook and  a showcase for international and newcomer communities within the region. Visitors will find vendors of hand-crafted items, prepared foods, diverse, live entertainment, and. World Square aims to help build connections between communities through an entertaining and immersive experience that highlights the diversity of the various communities that call Pittsburgh home. Welcoming Pittsburgh, the initiative from the Office of Mayor William Peduto focused on support and integration of Pittsburgh’s immigrant and refugee communities, and the Pittsburgh Downtown Partnership (PDP), came together to pilot the World Square Event. Through a wide collaboration of community partners and vendors, World Square is designed to be a highly visible platform to celebrate, promote, and welcome Pittsburgh’s international communities. Similar in style and scope to PDP’s Night Market program, these festivals are intended to cultivate a spirit of inclusivity and provide exposure in the heart of downtown Pittsburgh. World Square aims to create an environment that welcomes international communities Downtown, provide a platform for vendors from international communities, and provide an opportunity for the large number of people who visit downtown to learn about, experience, and build connections with the diverse cultures and communities that help bring vibrancy to Pittsburgh and the surrounding region. “The city of Pittsburgh is pleased to be a partner in presenting this opportunity to celebrate the rich immigrant culture that continues to shape our city,” said Mayor William Peduto. “We look forward to these three Friday evenings of celebration and recognition of some of our newest neighbors.” A sampling of vendors includes: - Alquisiras Paletria – small batch popsicles and ice cream   - Authentically African by Moa – featuring West African fashion and accessories   - Bae Bae’s Kitchen – serving Korean Food   - Cilantro &amp; Ajo – serving Venezuelan cuisine   - Costa Ricart – selling handmade crafts from reused materials   - Flatboat Fair Traders – Fair Trade items from Nicaragua and Costa Rica   - Salsa Aguilar – small batch gourmet salsas   - Pop Up in Pittsburgh – Vietnamese 3d paper greeting cards   Entertainment will vary each of the three evenings and additional entertainers are expected to be added to each evening;  full details for each night will be available on the event website. Features include: September 6 – DJ Simi, Kenia Ashby – a Brazilian Jazz Singer, Naina Kathak – performing traditional Indian dance, Balkan Babes – a Balkan Roma Band, Jmiirye – a Nigerian singer, and Appalasia – performing Appalachian – Chinese Folk September 13 – DJ Simi, Geña y Peña – performing Latin American and Caribbean music, Jemiriye – a Nigerian Singer, Noel Quintana &amp; The Latin Crew – performing music from Latin America, Naina Kathak – performing Bhutanese music, and Los Sabrosos - a Latin dance company. September 27 – Global Beats DJ, Hugo Cruz &amp; the Caminos – performing Afro-Cuban jazz, Pittsburgh Samba + Timbeleza – Samba Dancers with a live band, Purple Lotus Guzheng – Traditional Chinese harpists, and Los Sabrosos - a Latin dance company. According to Jeremy Waldrup, president and CEO of the Pittsburgh Downtown Partnership, “World Square is an exciting opportunity to create a global marketplace and celebration, in the heart of Downtown. Providing Pittsburgh’s newest residents with an opportunity to share their culture, art, and more with the entire city will make for three vibrant, fun-filled evenings.” DetailsFridays, September, 6, 13 and 27, 2019 Time: 5:00  – 10:00 p.m. Location: Market Square, Downtown Pittsburgh Website –WorldSquarePGH.com Additional community organizations served on the World Square Steering Committee and their contributions helped to create this event. These organizations include: - Change Agency   - Duquesne University Small Business Development Center   - Global Wordsmiths   - The Global Switchboard   - Hello Neighbor   - Jewish Family and Community Services   - Pittsburgh Hispanic Development Corporation   - PittGlobal, University of Pittsburgh   - Program for Immigrant-International Entrepreneurs (PIE), Duquesne University   - Vibrant Pittsburgh   - VisitPittsburgh   Generous support for World Square has been provided by the Benedum Foundation For questions regarding the City of Pittsburgh’s Welcoming Pittsburgh initiative, please reach out to Special Initiatives Manager, Feyisola Akintola, at feyi.alabi@pittsburghpa.gov or at (412)-255-8680. For media inquiries please contact Leigh Frank, Vice President of Marketing and Communications at lfrank@downtownpittsburgh.com or at 412-606-9877. | 3/9/2019 12:38:47 |
| Mayor Names Kevin Pawlos Director of the Office of Management and Budget | PITTSBURGH, PA (September 3, 2019) Mayor William Peduto is naming Kevin Pawlos, currently the Assistant Director – Operating Budget in the Office of Management &amp; Budget, as Pittsburgh’s new Director of the Office of Management &amp; Budget.   Pawlos joined the city in August of 2012. He has served as a budget analyst, senior budget analyst, operating budget manager, and then assistant director – operating budget starting in 2018.    Pawlos is replacing former budget director Jennifer Presutti, who left the city last year to become the budget director of the Pittsburgh Water and Sewer Authority.  “I am excited that Kevin Pawlos has agreed to continue to serve the employees and residents of Pittsburgh. Kevin has been a diligent public servant for the last seven years, and has shown a commitment to providing strong budgetary oversight into 2020 and beyond," said Mayor Peduto.   “I am proud to serve the people of Pittsburgh, work alongside such talented individuals, and honored to work for the Mayor and his administration,” said Pawlos.   The appointment will be subject to confirmation by Pittsburgh City Council. ### | 3/9/2019 10:11:55 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Wednesday, September 4, 2019 | Press Conference With Highmark Leadership On Future Of Fifth Avenue PlaceTime: 10:00 A.M.Location: Fifth Avenue Place, Central Business DistrictOpening Of Mill 19Time: 11:00 A.M.Location: 4000 Second Avenue - Hazelwood Green, HazelwoodFilming Interview With AT&amp;T SportsNetTime: 12:30 P.M.Location: Mayor's Conference Room, City-County Building2020 Operating Budget MeetingTime: 1:00 P.M.Location: Mayor's Conference Room, City-County BuildingCongressional Homeland Security Committee RoundtableTime: 2:00 P.M.Location: Council Chamber, City-County BuildingMeeting With Barbara FinchTime: 3:30 P.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County BuildingLGBTQIA+ Council MeetingTime: 4:00 P.M.Location: Ikea Room, City-County BuildingSpeaking At Mayor's Civic Leadership AcademyTime: 6:00 P.M.Location: Mayor's Conference Room, City-County Building | 4/9/2019 08:36:44 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Thursday, September 5, 2019 | Speaking at Comcast Veterans ProgramTime: 10:00 A.M.Location: Veterans Leadership Program, Strip DistrictPhone Call With Jaison MorganTime: 12:00 P.M.Location: Mayor’s Office, City-County Building2020 Capital Budget MeetingTime: 2:00 P.M.Location: Mayor’s Conference Room, City-County BuildingPresenting Proclamation for River City BrassTime: 3:30 P.M.Location: Mayor's Conference Room, City-County BuildingMeeting with United Way CEO Bobbi Watt GeerTime: 4:00 P.M.Location: Mayor’s Office, City-County BuildingWeekly Scheduling MeetingTime: 4:30 P.M.Location: Mayor’s Conference Room, City-County BuildingPresenting Proclamation to Rebecca HarrisTime: 6:00 P.M.Location: Chatham Center for Women’s Entrepreneurship, LarimerAttending BritsburghTime: 7:30 P.M.Location: The Frick, Point Breeze | 5/9/2019 08:02:51 |
| Smitty | test editing | 6/9/2019 10:26:09 |
| mcnulty test | testing again | 6/9/2019 10:13:40 |
| Test 3 | Test 3 text | 6/9/2019 11:09:25 |
| mcnulty test 2 | test text here | 6/9/2019 10:52:52 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Friday, September 6, 2019 | Meeting With T.J. BogdewicTime: 11:30 A.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County BuildingPhone Call With Greg BehrmanTime: 3:30 P.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County BuildingGlobal Night MarketTime: 5:30 P.M.Location: Market Square, Central Business District | 6/9/2019 10:16:26 |
| 20th Anniversary of Alphabet Trail &amp; Tales | PITTSBURGH, PA (September 9, 2019)  Citiparks is pleased to announce the 20th Anniversary of Alphabet Trail and Tales on Saturday, September 14, 2019, in Frick Park—Blue Slide Playground (Beechwood Blvd. at Nicholson).  With 26 letters of the alphabet, there is zany FUN for everyone! Mark your calendar for this wonderful day of family fun! This year marks our 20th Anniversary of this storied event in beautiful Frick Park. Six life-size, hand-painted story sets along the trail attract thousands of children and families annually for a day of reading and fun in an outdoor setting.   Enjoy the best in children's early and elementary literature, art and enrichment, games, entertainment and tons of interactive activities from Pittsburgh's leading arts and cultural organizations. The EQT Children's Theater, Carnegie Library of Pittsburgh, Reading is Fundamental, Cultural Trust, Animal Friends and Trying Together are a few of the many organizations joining Citiparks to support literacy in our region.  Per Ross Chapman, Director of Parks and Recreation, “This event is great for the entire family, and we are really excited for this milestone Anniversary!”      | 9/9/2019 09:37:29 |
| URA Program Invests $35 Million in 250 Small Businesses | PITTSBURGH, PA (September 9, 2019) More than 250 small businesses across Pittsburgh have been assisted with $35+ million in support from the Urban Redevelopment Authority of Pittsburgh the past five years, leading to almost $110 million in small business investment citywide.A study of investments by the URA’s Center for Innovation and Entrepreneurship shows that from January 1, 2015 through August 5, 2019 261 small business projects received $35.5 million in investments, leading to $109 million in total project costs. The investments created 786 jobs and retained another 590 jobs, and 30% of the grants were issued to minority and women-owned business enterprises.“Small businesses are the bedrock of Pittsburgh’s neighborhoods and these investments are critical to their growth. I want to thank the URA for this ongoing work, and welcome other businesses to apply,” Mayor William Peduto said.The URA’s Center for Innovation and Entrepreneurship offers a variety of gap financing products to help businesses close the financing for their business growth and expansion. The projects supported by CIE were made across the city to businesses in all nine City Council districts.“We’re proud to have supported so many entrepreneurs, small businesses and micro-enterprises, including a host of amazing minority and women-owned businesses,” said URA Deputy Director Diamonte Walker. “In addition, these programs do more than provide capital to these entrepreneurs and businesses; they help to build wealth in the communities they serve.” | 9/9/2019 12:50:21 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Monday, September 9, 2019 | PITTSBURGH, PA (September 9, 2019) Mayor William Peduto is in Washington D.C. today, where he will join other mayors whose cities have suffered gun massacres to press the White House and Congress to adopt firearms background check legislation. The mayors have a meeting scheduled with White House officials in the afternoon, followed by a press conference where they will call upon the U.S. Senate, which returns to session today, to vote on background check legislation approved by the House in the spring. Last month, in the wake of mass shootings in El Paso and Dayton, Mayor Peduto and Moms Demand Action founder Shannon Watts called on the Senate to immediately come back to session and vote on gun safety measures.  The U.S. Conference of Mayors organized today’s events. More than 275 cities nationwide have signed onto a bipartisan USCOM letter urging the White House and Senate to support background check legislation. Mayor William Peduto’s Public Schedule – Monday, September 9, 2019: Meeting at White House with Nan Whaley, Mayor of Dayton, OH; Francis X. Suarez, Mayor of Miami, FL; Christine Hunschofsky, Mayor of Parkland, FL; John Giles, Mayor of Mesa, AZ; Betsy Price, Mayor of Fort Worth, TX; Bryan K. Barnett, Mayor of Rochester Hills, MI, &amp; USCOM President; USCOM senior advisor and former Philadelphia Police Chief Charles Ramsey, and Houston Police Chief and Major Cities Chiefs Association President Art AcevedoTime: 2 p.m. Location: White House, 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue NW, Washington D.C.  Press Conference on Bipartisan Gun Safety Background Check LegislationTime: 4:30 p.m. Location: U.S. Capitol, Room HVC200, First St SE, Washington, D.C. | 9/9/2019 09:34:05 |
| Landslide Remediation Project Complete in Homewood | PITTSBURGH, PA (September 9 2019) The Department of Mobility and Infrastructure announces the completion of a landslide remediation project in Homewood. The Stranahan Street project included  installation of a new curb, sidewalk, and subbase. The new subbase at the top of the slope will improve the drainage on the hillside.   | 9/9/2019 13:27:13 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Tuesday, September 10, 2019 | PITTSBURGH, PA (September 10, 2019) Mayor William Peduto is in Washington D.C. today, where he will meet with Senator Pat Toomey to discuss common-sense gun safety legislation. Later today he will join local and federal legislators to discuss gun safety legislation in a press conference hosted by Mayors Against Illegal Guns/Everytown for Gun Safety, and then appear on a mayoral panel on MSNBC’s Hardball with Chris Matthews. Yesterday the mayor joined other mayors whose cities have suffered gun massacres to press the White House and Congress to adopt firearms background check legislation.  The U.S. Conference of Mayors organized yesterday’s events, and other mayors are meeting with their home-state Senators today as well. More than 275 cities nationwide have signed onto a bipartisan USCOM letter urging the White House and Senate to support background check legislation. Last month – in the wake of mass shootings in El Paso and Dayton – Mayor Peduto and Moms Demand Action founder Shannon Watts called on the Senate to immediately come back to session and vote on gun safety measures.  Mayor Peduto will meet with Senator Toomey to discuss background checks and the ordinances Pittsburgh City Council approved this spring barring the use of assault-style weapons and accessories in the city, and the adoption of a “red flag” law authorizing courts to temporarily take firearms away from those who are a danger to themselves or others. Mayor William Peduto’s Public Schedule – Tuesday, September 9, 2019: Meeting with Senator ToomeyTime: 9 a.m. Location: 248 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, D.C. Mayors Against Illegal Guns/Everytown for Gun Safety Press ConferenceTime: 3:30 p.m. Location: House Triangle, U.S. Capitol 16th Annual Pittsburgh Region/Washington, D.C. Reception with Greater Pittsburgh Chamber of CommerceTime: 5 p.m. Location: Bullfeathers, 410 First Street SE, Washington, D.C. Hardball with Chris MatthewsTime: 7 p.m. | 10/9/2019 08:32:52 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Wednesday, September 11, 2019 | Flight to PittsburghTime: 10 a.m.Rally with Allegheny County Labor Council on Worker SafetyTime: NoonLocation: City-County Building PorticoWeekly Meeting with Public Safety Director Wendell Hissrich and Police Chief Scott SchubertTime: 2 p.m.Location: Mayor's OfficeMeeting on 2020 Operating BudgetTime: 3:30 p.m.Location: Mayor's Conference Room | 11/9/2019 09:55:21 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Thursday, September 12, 2019 | Phone Call With Member Of The Pittsburgh Board Of Public Education Sala UdinTime: 10:30 A.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County BuildingPittsburgh Bureau Of Fire Promotion CeremonyTime: 11:00 A.M.Location: Council Chamber, City-County BuildingTour Of Hunt ArmoryTime: 12:30 P.M.Location: Hunt Armory, Shadyside2020 Capital Budget DiscussionTime: 2:00 P.M.Location: Mayor's Conference Room, City-County BuildingMeeting With Clean Pittsburgh CommissionTime: 4:00 P.M.Location: Mayor's Conference Room, City-County BuildingGreen Building Alliance Emerald EveningTime: 7:30 P.M.Location: Museum Lab - Children's Museum of Pittsburgh, Allegheny Center | 12/9/2019 07:33:59 |
| Diana Street in Spring Hill Reopens After Landslide | PITTSBURGH, PA (September 13, 2019) Diana Street in Spring Hill reopened today after seven months of reconstruction work following a major landslide, the Department of Mobility and Infrastructure announced.Wok included the construction of a soldier pile and anchor retaining wall, new inlet and cross pipe, and paving. The wall installation permitted the street to be returned to its original alignment and was paved to Itin Street. The new inlet and cross pipe were installed to direct runoff away from the wall.The segment of Diana near Ives Way had to be closed following a February 2018 landslide, Several months of extensive geotechnical analysis and engineering design were required before construction could commence this spring.Landslides over the past two years have led to more than $8 million in city capital investment to protect and restore neighborhood rights of way citywide.The Diana Street reconstruction cost $880,000.Photos: City of Pittsburgh Department of Mobility and Infrastructure | 13/9/2019 14:30:30 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Friday, September 13, 2019 | No public events scheduled | 13/9/2019 15:03:26 |
| Work to Begin on Forbes Avenue Sidewalk Extension and Streetscape Improvements | PITTSBURGH, PA (September 13, 2019) As part of an ongoing effort to make the streets of Downtown Pittsburgh more walkable and pedestrian-friendly, the Urban Redevelopment Authority of Pittsburgh, City of Pittsburgh Department of Mobility and Infrastructure, and Pittsburgh Downtown Partnership announced that construction will begin Monday, September 16, on a project to improve a section of Forbes Avenue.Anchored by Market Square and extending one block east to Wood Street, the Forbes Avenue Sidewalk Extension will work to build upon the vibrancy of Market Square and extend it through this heavily-travelled corridor by extending the width of the sidewalks while incorporating dedicated zones for loading and drop-off/pick-ups.  Work will begin starting nearest Market Square and continuing towards Wood Street. The total project duration is expected to be two months.“We are thrilled to see additional enhancements to this corridor and appreciate the support from the City of Pittsburgh and the URA and their support of the many locally-owned businesses along this corridor,” said Jeremy Waldrup, President &amp; CEO of the Pittsburgh Downtown Partnership. “After working with community stakeholders to develop some concepts, we’re excited to see the positive impact this will have on those who use Forbes Avenue daily.”The sidewalk extension is one part of the vision is to reimagine Forbes Avenue as a dynamic and exciting corridor that attracts patrons and that better supports the needs of Downtown businesses. Developed through a series of workshops with stakeholders and business owners along Forbes Avenue and led by the PDP, the future of the Forbes Avenue corridor was identified as being:- A great Downtown street with strong local business presence and activity- A Downtown destination throughout the day and night- A continuous feel and identity from Market Square onto Forbes Avenue- A place where pedestrians are firstAs this project was intended to extend the vibe of Market Square into Forbes Avenue, the PDP has contracted a landscape architect consultant to work with the stakeholders to identify streetscape and café seating concepts for the new sidewalk extension that complement the context of the area.These enhancements will likely be seen in the spring of 2020.Additional details:- Hours of construction are Monday – Friday, 7:00 a.m. – 5:00 p.m.- An 8’ concrete sidewalk extension will be installed along the southern side of Forbes Avenue between Market Square and Wood Street, with a “bump-in” for loading in front of the hotel and a dedicated loading and drop-off/pick-up zone to extend from Market Square to the parking garage.- The on-street parking and loading lane will be removed and the road will be restriped to allow for continuous two way traffic for the duration of the project.- The Forbes Avenue Parking Garage will remain accessible throughout the duration of the project.- No equipment can start before 7:00 a.m. or extend past 5:00 p.m. Any request for work beyond these hours requires special approval from the URA one week in advance.- No trailers will be on-site due to limited space, and the contractor is responsible for dust control and cleaning of streets.- A minimum of a five foot clear and safe pedestrian path around the work site is required at all times.- Flaggers will be on site if the work needs to impede on a travel lane for staging or to move equipment.About the Urban Redevelopment Authority of Pittsburgh (URA)The URA is the City of Pittsburgh's economic development agency, committed to creating jobs, expanding the City's tax base, and improving the vitality of businesses and neighborhoods. The URA achieves this mission by assembling, preparing, and conveying sites for major mixed-use developments and by providing a portfolio of programs that include financing for business location, relocation and expansion, housing construction and rehabilitation, and home purchases and improvements. The URA is also committed to equitable development and incorporates best practices for equity and inclusion into its internal and external policies and activities.About the Pittsburgh Downtown PartnershipThe Pittsburgh Downtown Partnership (PDP) is a dynamic, non-profit organization comprised of business and community leaders, property owners, civic organizations, foundations and residents who provide energy, vision, and advocacy for Downtown Pittsburgh. Working collaboratively with its partners, the PDP strives to create a positive Downtown experience for residents, workers and visitors alike. The PDP’s strategic initiatives include clean and safe services, transportation, and economic development and advocacy. For more information, visit www.DowntownPittsburgh.com, and follow us on Twitter, Facebook and Instagram: @DowntownPitt.Contacts:Timothy McNulty, Communications Director, City of Pittsburgh, timothy.mcnulty@pittsburghpa.gov or 412-660-1999Colten Gill, Digital and Online Content Coordinator, Pittsburgh Downtown Partnership, 412-325-0151 | 13/9/2019 16:28:42 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule -Monday, September 16, 2019 | Rinker Materials Reinforced Concrete Pipe Plant TourTime: 11:00 A.M.Location: Rinker Materials Pipe Plant, Oakdale, PAUAE &amp; American Middle East Institute LuncheonTime: 12:00 P.M.Location: K &amp; L Gates Center, Central Business DistrictPittsburgh Bureau Of Police Promotion CeremonyTime: 1:00 P.M.Location: Council Chamber, City-County BuildingMeeting With PennDOT Officials, Department of Public Works, &amp; Pittsburgh Water &amp; Sewer AuthorityTime: 2:30 P.M.Location: Mayor's Conference Room, City-County BuildingMeeting With HeadspaceTime: 3:00 P.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County BuildingPresenting Proclamation For Cancer AwarenessTime: 4:30 P.M.Location: Mayor's Conference Room, City-County BuildingUAE &amp; American Middle East Institute Evening ReceptionTime: 6:00 P.M.Location: The LeMont, Mount WashingtonGreater Hazelwood Neighborhood Plan Community UnveilingTime: 7:00 P.M.Location: Hazelwood Green, Hazelwood | 16/9/2019 09:20:45 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule -Monday, September 16, 2019 | Rinker Materials Reinforced Concrete Pipe Plant TourTime: 11:00 A.M.Location: Rinker Materials Pipe Plant, Oakdale, PAUAE &amp; American Middle East Institute LuncheonTime: 12:00 P.M.Location: K &amp; L Gates Center, Central Business DistrictPittsburgh Bureau Of Police Promotion CeremonyTime: 1:00 P.M.Location: Council Chamber, City-County BuildingMeeting With PennDOT Officials, Department of Public Works, &amp; Pittsburgh Water &amp; Sewer AuthorityTime: 2:30 P.M.Location: Mayor's Conference Room, City-County BuildingMeeting With HeadspaceTime: 3:00 P.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County BuildingPresenting Proclamation For Cancer AwarenessTime: 4:30 P.M.Location: Mayor's Conference Room, City-County BuildingUAE &amp; American Middle East Institute Evening ReceptionTime: 6:00 P.M.Location: The LeMont, Mount WashingtonGreater Hazelwood Neighborhood Plan Community UnveilingTime: 7:00 P.M.Location: Hazelwood Green, Hazelwood | 16/9/2019 09:20:47 |
| Media Advisory: Mayor Peduto to Join Gender Equity Commission To Present Report Findings | Media AdvisoryPITTSBURGH, PA (September 16, 2019) Tomorrow afternoon Mayor William Peduto will hold a press conference with the Gender Equity Commission to announce the release of a pathbreaking white paper about gender and racial inequality in our city. WHAT: News conference on Gender Equity Commission white paper with Mayor William Peduto; the commission's executive director; and commission members. WHERE: Mayor’s Conference Room, 5th Floor, City-County Building, 414 Grant St. WHEN: 1:00 p.m., Tuesday, September 17, 2019. | 16/9/2019 16:17:47 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule -Tuesday, September 17, 2019 | Meeting On 2020 Operating BudgetTime: 12:00 P.M.Location: Mayor's Conference Room, City-County BuildingGender Equity Press ConferenceTime: 1:00 P.M.Location: Mayor's Conference Room, City-County Building | 17/9/2019 08:03:33 |
| Open Public Comment Period for the Greater Hazelwood Neighborhood Plan Begins After Open House Unveiling | PITTSBURGH, PA (September 17, 2019) On Monday, Sept. 16, the Department of City Planning unveiled the neighborhood plan for Greater Hazelwood to more than 130 people. The open house event was held at Advanced Robotics for Manufacturing Institute in Hazelwood Green’s Mill 19, a building repurposed from the site’s original use as a steel mill.The open house gave community members the opportunity to review and comment on the draft plan as well as dialogue with planners, technical experts and the plan’s steering committee. Community members also had the opportunity to share their thoughts and respond to the Call to Action to join a team to implement the plan.The Greater Hazelwood Neighborhood Plan focuses on ways to strengthen and improve the community while preparing for future growth and change. The objective of the plan is to develop without displacement.“The rollout of the Greater Hazelwood Neighborhood Plan was a huge success,” said Tim Smith, chair of the Greater Hazelwood Community Collaborative and CEO of Center of Life. “The people of Greater Hazelwood remain energized about the plan and cautiously optimistic regarding implementation and outcomes. The leadership of the Greater Hazelwood Community Collaborative will continue to provide community members with education and training on the details of the plan and direction on participation in teams that are addressing neighborhood priorities.”The plan is organized around the topics of community, development, mobility and infrastructure. The community’s priorities are outlined and strategies for implementation are identified throughout the plan. The plan is available for viewing on the Department of City Planning website at https://pittsburghpa.gov/dcp/ghnp.An open period for public comment began on Friday, Aug. 30, and will continue through Friday, Oct. 4. Comments can be made online at https://www.surveymonkey.com/r/GQ8D5GM.The Greater Hazelwood Neighborhood Plan will be presented to the Planning Commission on Tuesday, Nov. 5, and there will be opportunity for public comment.For More Information:Ose AkinlotanProject Manager, Neighborhood Planner, ose.akinlotan@pittsburghpa.govAndrew DashActing Director, Department of City Planning, andrew.dash@pittsburghpa.gov | 17/9/2019 15:11:01 |
| Gender Equity In Pittsburgh And Comparable Cities | PITTSBURGH, PA (September 17, 2019) The Gender Equity Commission (GEC), housed in Mayor William Peduto’s Office of Equity, announces the release of a pathbreaking white paper about gender and racial inequality in our city. As part of a city-wide Gender Analysis, the GEC commissioned this report, which is being conducted by an interdisciplinary research team at the University of Pittsburgh. The report examines health, income, employment, and education indicators. It also introduces an innovative new tool that compares Pittsburgh to 89 other cities and determines where local interventions can be most effective.  Major findings include serious inequality and opportunity for improvement in:  Black women's maternal mortality, employment, poverty, and college readiness;  Black men's occupational segregation, homicide rate, cancer, and cardiovascular disease;  Low enrollment in college admissions exams and school police referrals for all students. University of Pittsburgh Associate Professor of Social Work Dr. Sara Goodkind explains, “An intersectional analysis of equity in Pittsburgh is more complicated than one examining only gender or race, but it is essential if we want to make Pittsburgh a more equitable city. Our research shows that White and Black women experience different types and degrees of discrimination and disadvantage, and that Black women in Pittsburgh face greater challenges than Black women in other cities. Our future research will continue to shed light on differential experiences in our city, extending beyond the groups included in this first report. We are pleased to have the chance to apply our research skills in conducting a rigorous, multi-part study for the city, and to partner with the Gender Equity Commission in this important work.” The GEC Chair, Dr. Jessie Ramey, states, “This white paper is a historic look at Pittsburgh’s inequality through both a gender and racial lens. If we are serious about making Pittsburgh livable for all of its residents, we will need to address these significant inequalities together as a community.” Based on the findings in this research and two more white papers this fall, the GEC will be developing recommendations for promoting equity through City policy and legislative changes. The Commission will also continue to collect input from diverse local communities and draw on the expertise of staff in City departments and authorities.  Commission Executive Director, Dr. anupama jain, explains, “Historically under-represented or marginalized groups continue to face inequities throughout our country and here in Pittsburgh. Overcoming barriers to equity requires reliable and current data that is disaggregated, in order for initiatives like the GEC to develop sustainable solutions for problems facing the city as a whole.” Created by local ordinance in late 2016, the Gender Equity Commission consists of an Executive Director and at least 13 Commissioners who live or work in the City of Pittsburgh. They are tasked with identifying and overcoming systemic barriers to gender equity in terms of local government functions. Their approach is intersectional and recognizes that, even as gender impacts all people, it differentially impacts individuals and groups based on other identities and axes of power, including race, class, ability, sexual orientation, and other categories. The mission of the Gender Equity Commission is to achieve equity for women and girls in the City of Pittsburgh. Its vision is a future in which everyone in the City of Pittsburgh, regardless of gender identity or expression, is safe in all spaces, empowered to achieve their full potential, and no longer faces structural or institutional barriers to economic, social, and political equality. The University of Pittsburgh team includes Dr. Junia Howell, Sociology; Dr. Sara Goodkind School of Social Work; Dr. Leah A. Jacobs, School of Social Work; Dominique Branson, Linguistics; and Dr. Liz Miller, Pediatrics, Public Health, and Clinical and Translational Science. Read the report here. | 17/9/2019 13:12:04 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Wednesday, September 18, 2019 | Weekly Meeting With Director Of Public Safety Wendell Hissrich &amp; Chief Of Police Scott SchubertTime: 2:00 P.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County BuildingJudge For Dell Hack-A-Thon At ThrivalTime: 3:30 P.M.Location: Carnegie Music Hall - Carnegie Institute, North OaklandOriden Office Opening &amp; Ribbon CuttingTime: 6:30 P.M.Location: 106 Isabella Street, North Shore | 18/9/2019 09:01:00 |
| Media Advisory: Mayor Peduto and Welcoming Pittsburgh Officials Holding Press Conference on Public Charge Rule | PITTSBURGH, PA (September 19, 2019) Mayor William Peduto and members of the Welcoming Pittsburgh steering committee will hold a press conference this morning on the Trump Administration's proposed changes to public charge rules, which will have a negative impact on immigrant communities.WHAT: Press conference on public charge ruleWHERE: Mayor's Conference Room, 5th Floor, City-County BuildingWHEN: 11 a.m., Thursday, September 19, 2019 | 19/9/2019 08:31:20 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Thursday, September 19, 2019 | "Believe the Burgh" EventTime: 9:30 a.m.Location: 2400 Penn Ave., Strip DistrictPress Conference with Welcoming Pittsburgh on Public Charge RuleTime: 11 a.m.Location: Mayor's Conference RoomMeeting with Chief Resilience Officer Grant ErvinTime: 11:30 a.m.Location: Mayor's OfficeScheduling MeetingTime: NoonLocation: Mayor's OfficeNicholas Coffee 100th AnniversaryTime: 12:30 p.m.Location: Market Square, Central Business DistrictMeeting with Aldrick LaPlaceTime: 1 p.m.Location: Mayor's Office | 19/9/2019 08:50:32 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Friday, September 20, 2019 | Speaking At Winchester Thurston School Civics ClassTime: 9:30 A.M.Location: Winchester Thurston School, ShadysideMeeting With John MaherTime:  11:00 A.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County BuildingMeeting With John ValentineTime:  11:30 A.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County BuildingAttending Youth Climate StrikeTime: 12:00 P.M.Location: City-County Building, Grant StreetRibbon Cutting At Pressley Ridge SchoolTime: 1:00 P.M.Location: Pressley Ridge School, Perry South Meeting With Councilman Theresa Kail-SmithTime: 2:00 P.M.Location: Mayor's Conference Room, City-County BuildingMeeting With Director Of Mobility &amp; Infrastructure Karina RicksTime: 4:00 P.M.Location: Mayor's Conference Room, City-County BuildingSpeaking At GirlGov Opening Reception &amp; DinnerTime: 6:00 P.M.Location: Sheraton Hotel - Station Square, South Shore | 20/9/2019 10:16:44 |
| Mayor Peduto Welcomes Participation in Global Climate Strike | PITTSBURGH, PA (September 20, 2019) Mayor William Peduto welcomes participation by Pittsburgh residents, workers and students in the Global Climate Strike today at noon at the City-County Building.Pittsburgh Public Schools students need written permission from their parents or guardians to leave school, and Mayor William Peduto will co-sign such permission slips for youths interested in validating their attendance at the historic event, which millions of people are joining worldwide in more than 150 countries. The Mayor is urging PPS to excuse any student who has parent/guardian permission to attend the event. | 20/9/2019 11:11:21 |
| Final Numbers Show Growth for 2019 Summer Jobs Program | PITTSBURGH, PA (September 23, 2019) As summertime comes to a close, Allegheny County, the City of Pittsburgh and Partner4Work are pleased to announce that the Learn &amp; Earn summer jobs program served more young adults than ever this year.There were 1,899 city and county youth who obtained jobs through Learn &amp; Earn in 2019, 76 more than in 2018. There were also more young people that completed the program – 1,778 – than ever before in the program’s five-year history.The numbers include the 55 corporate placements with 26 employers, the most corporate engagement yet. There were 1,074 city youth served and 825 from the county.“We’re delighted to see this program continue to grow and provide skills that the youth in this county can continue to build on as they pursue further education or careers,” said County Executive Rich Fitzgerald. “This initiative would not have been possible without the support of our partners in the nonprofit and business communities who have opened up their doors to our county’s youth."“Learn &amp; Earn has successfully spread opportunity to Pittsburgh-area kids year after year and year, and I couldn’t be happier with its accomplishments. It all goes to show how successful we can be when the public and private sectors work collectively to invest in our future,” Mayor William Peduto said.Learn &amp; Earn is a paid summer jobs program that provides young adults with the opportunity to gain work experience, develop soft skills and explore careers. In addition to the time spent working, young people participate in professional development to hone their work-readiness skills.The program continues to be an economic driver for the city and county. Since its start in 2015, Learn &amp; Earn participants have earned more than $9 million in wages and worked more than 1,350,000 hours.Youth have worked at more than 350 worksites throughout the region with experiences ranging from college preparation and introduction to construction to video production and developing marketing strategies. Corporate and non-profit partners in 2019 included A. Philip Randolph Institute, Allegheny Conference on Community Development, Allegheny Intermediate Unit, ATI, BotsIQ, the Buhl Foundation, Community College of Allegheny County, Citizens Bank, Office of City Council President Bruce Kraus, Office of Councilwoman Darlene Harris, the City of Pittsburgh, Consortium of Public Education, Ikos, Jones Day, MarcUSA, Mattress Factory, Never Fear Being Different, Partner4Work, PNC, Presbyterian Senior Care Network, Office of Representative Jake Wheatley, and UPMC. Recruitment is open now for 2020 corporate partners.“Learn &amp; Earn continues to be a model program in collaboration, bringing together local government, businesses, foundations, and non-profits,” said Earl Buford, Partner4Work CEO. "Thanks to our partners who continue to step up, and open their doors to the region’s future workforce, we are preparing the next generation to keep the economy thriving in the years ahead.”A final report analyzing 2019 Learn &amp; Earn program will be issued in December. | 23/9/2019 10:08:49 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Monday, September 23, 2019 | PITTSBURGH, PA (September 23, 2019) Mayor William Peduto is in New York City today joining government, corporate,, foundation and nonprofit leaders from across the globe at the 2019 United Nations Climate Action Summit. He will be speaking today on a Ford Foundation panel about Pittsburgh advancing sustainable development goals, and Sustainable Future Forum panel on cities and companies taking the lead towards climate change. The Mayor is the North American representative on the Global Covenant of Mayors for Climate and Energy, and on the board of ICLEI USA,/Local Governments for Sustainability. He has also attended U.N. climate change conferences in Paris and Bonn, representing United States municipal leaders at the forefront of the climate change fight. The U.N. describes the summit this way: Climate change is the defining issue of our time and now is the defining moment to do something about it. There is still time to tackle climate change, but it will require an unprecedented effort from all sectors of society. To boost ambition and accelerate actions to implement the Paris Agreement on Climate Change, UN Secretary-General António Guterres is asking leaders, from government, business and civil society, to come to the 2019 Climate Action Summit on 23 September with plans to address the global climate emergency. The Summit will spark the transformation that is urgently needed and propel action that will benefit everyone.Organizers are paying the Mayor’s travel expenses. No city tax dollars are being spent. He returns to Pittsburgh Thursday. Mayor William Peduto’s Public Schedule – Monday, September 23, 2019 Panel discussion at the Ford Foundation Center for Social Justice on American Leadership in Advancing the Sustainable Development Goals: Advancing SDGs Local in the US; Spotlight on Pittsburgh. With speakers including Mayor Peduto; Ann Cudd, provost and senior vice chancellor, University of Pittsburgh; James Garrett, provost, Carnegie Mellon University; Lisa Schroeder, president, Pittsburgh Foundation; David Finegold, president, Chatham University; and moderator Ashok Regmi of the International Youth FoundationTime: 8:40 a.m. Location: Ford Foundation, 320 East 43rd Street, New York  Towards an Equitable and Sustainable City Forum with Mayor Bill DeBlasioTime: 4 p.m. Location: Columbia University, Lerner Hall 555, 2920 Broadway Avenue, New York Sustainable Future Forum on Cities &amp; Companies Taking the Lead Towards Climate Change with Mayor Peduto, Shimrit Perkol Finkel, marine biologist and founder of ECOcreme; Laura Jay, deputy director of Americas, C40; and Jonathan Rose, author and real estate developer of affordable environmentally-responsible communtiesTime: 6:50 p.m. Location: PNB Paribas, 787 Seventh Avenue, New York | 23/9/2019 09:39:15 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - September 24, 2019 | PITTSBURGH, PA (September 24, 2019) Mayor William Peduto is in New York City today joining government, corporate,, foundation and nonprofit leaders from across the globe at the 2019 United Nations Climate Action Summit. He will be speaking today on a panel hosted by Liberal International, the world federation of liberal and progressive democratic political parties, and meeting with the organization’s leader Macky Sall, the President of Senegal. The Mayor is the North American representative on the Global Covenant of Mayors for Climate and Energy, and on the board of ICLEI USA,/Local Governments for Sustainability. He has also attended U.N. climate change conferences in Paris and Bonn, representing United States municipal leaders at the forefront of the climate change fight. The U.N. describes the summit this way: Climate change is the defining issue of our time and now is the defining moment to do something about it. There is still time to tackle climate change, but it will require an unprecedented effort from all sectors of society. To boost ambition and accelerate actions to implement the Paris Agreement on Climate Change, UN Secretary-General António Guterres is asking leaders, from government, business and civil society, to come to the 2019 Climate Action Summit on 23 September with plans to address the global climate emergency. The Summit will spark the transformation that is urgently needed and propel action that will benefit everyone.Organizers are paying the Mayor’s travel expenses. No city tax dollars are being spent. He returns to Pittsburgh Thursday. Mayor William Peduto’s Public Schedule – Tuesday, September 24, 2019 World Economic Forum panel on Accelerating Climate ActionTime: 9 a.m. Location: 730 3rd Avenue, New York  Climate Resilience Concept Meeting with Liberal International President &amp; President of Senegal Macky Sall; US State Department; Russian Ministry of Foreign Affairs; Arctic Council Representatives; and Climate Change and Security ExpertsTime: 11 a.m.,  Location: Senegalese Mission to the United Nations, 747 3rd Avenue, New York Second Local and Regional Governments Forum on SDGsTime: 3 p.m. Location: United Nations Headquarters, New York | 24/9/2019 08:47:27 |
| New Legislation Seeks to Increase Fire Bureau Diversity | PITTSBURGH, PA ( September 24, 2019) The Department of Human Resources and Civil Service is introducing legislation to Pittsburgh City Council this morning to help improve hiring for Pittsburgh’s Fire Bureau.
The department plans to contract with the National Testing Network (NTN) to study Fire Bureau hiring practices and particularly its ability to hire women and ethnically diverse candidates.
NTN will assess hiring policies and practices to ensure there is an equal opportunity for all qualified participants applying for firefighter positions. NTN will identify areas of strength and weakness throughout the city’s policies and practices and will recommend solutions to rectify areas of weaknesses.
The “Fire Barrier Assessment” contract is for a sum not to exceed $49,875.00.
“The City of Pittsburgh takes pride in its efforts to improve its processes to source applicants that will lead to the hiring of qualified and eligible candidates to fill its openings. Having the Fire Barrier Study conducted could lead to information to help the Department of Human Resources and Civil Service understand what are the obstacles that are hindering applicants from applying and allow us the chance to review, revise and implement process improvements where necessary,” said Director Janet Manuel.
NTN will be using the following workplan:

1. Collect and review relevant written content related to hiring

2. Compile Data

3. Focus Groups/Meetings/Surveys with stakeholder groups

4. Research other comparable cities

5. Detail findings in a final report

6. Final presentation and Q&amp;A with stakeholders

|     |     |     |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Current Demographics |
| Gender | 670 Males | 6 Females |
| Ethnicity | 607 White/ Caucasian | 6 Hispanic or Latino |
|  | 54 African-American or Black | 3 Asian |
|  | 2 American Indian/ Alaskan Native | 6 Two or More or Unknown | | 24/9/2019 10:40:07 |
| Second Cohort Chosen for Catapult Business Incubation Program | PITTSBURGH, PA (September 24, 2019) The Catapult: Start-Up to Storefront Program launched its second cohort earlier this month. Directed by Circles Greater Pittsburgh, and supported by a $150,000 grant from the Urban Redevelopment Authority of Pittsburgh, Catapult is a 12-month business incubation program for entrepreneurs who want to start a business, or existing businesses looking to grow.“Catapult is a great program that shows the City of Pittsburgh’s commitments to inclusive growth and the revitalization of neighborhood main streets and business districts,” Mayor William Peduto said.Of the nearly 70 entrepreneurs that applied to participate in this year’s cohort, 15 minority-owned startup and early-stage businesses were chosen to complete the program:•             I.T’s 4 Me: information technology systems•             Zuri Beads: jewelry design and creation•             Gentleman Brand: leather crafting•             The Art of Natiq: artist•             Minnie and Me, LLC.: personalized design•             Flowers Designs: wedding stationary and design•             Elated Culture: men's streetwear•             Lavish Lamb: hair accessories•             Clean and Classy Candle Co.: artisan candle making•             Happysac412: medical marijuana accessories•             The Covering: clothing designer•             RoyallyFit LLC: fitness apparel and lifestyle products•             Soil Sisters Plant Nursery: urban gardening and education•             It’s Amore by Amari: women's apparel•             Mele’s Party Planning: specialty party favors and giftsThe businesses will be given the opportunity to locate within the Gallery on Penn, Catapult’s dedicated retail incubation space on Penn Avenue in East Liberty. The Gallery on Penn is a partnership between East Liberty Development Inc. (ELDI) and Circles Greater Pittsburgh to provide a cost-effective space for the entrepreneurs to learn and develop their businesses.Paramount Co-op, an incubator and coworking space, will be working with the businesses over the next 12 months through one-on-one mentoring and programming focused on marketing, finance, and business structure.In January 2019, 12 businesses graduated from the first Catapult cohort.“After the first cohort showed interest in preparing for retail business, Catapult deepened its commitment to the participants by extending the program from nine to 12 months,” said Tammy Thompson, executive director of Circles Greater Pittsburgh and director of the Catapult program. “This program is designed to set entrepreneurs up for success.”The Catapult team is also working on expanding the program to additional neighborhoods in 2020 and 2021, as well as potentially developing a food-industry focused cohort.“We’re excited to welcome the second cohort to the program. Working with our partners, our hope is to scale the retailer-in-residence model across the City to ensure diverse entrepreneurs have catalytic support in both emerging and strong markets," URA Deputy Director Diamonte Walker said. | 23/9/2019 11:58:31 |
| Garbage Olympics Winners Crowned | PITTSBURGH, PA (September 24, 2019) Teams from thirty-four city neighborhoods and Penn Hills kept busy Saturday morning competing in Pittsburgh's 3rd Annual Garbage Olympics. Approximately 554 volunteers had two hours to pick up trash in their communities.Members of the Mayor's Clean Pittsburgh Commission helped to organize the competition, acted as judges, and announced the winners at a closing ceremony at Threadbare Cider House in Spring Garden. Dunkin’ Donuts treated the teams to donuts, local businesses donated prizes, and Mayor Peduto will be treating the largest team to lunch.Central Oakland organized the most volunteers: a whopping 70, and Travis in Polish Hill secured the spot for dirtiest volunteer, winning the prize of soap and a loofah. A stuffed horse found by Sheraden Neighbors ( photo aboave) won their team the strangest item award by finding a stuffed animal horse. Penn Hills won most spirit for their enthusiasm and online training video. Finally, Garfield took home the Oscar the Grouch trophy for most trash collected. Neighborhood team photos ( photo of Central Oakland below) will be posted on the Clean Pittsburgh Commission Facebook page, and can also be found by searching #GarbageOlympics across social media. The Department of Public Works hauled the collected bags of litter and waste to the landfill, and recycled the tires and TV’s. By the numbers:●    554+ volunteers●    974+ bags of garbage●    134+ tires●    95+ TV’s●    15 mattresses●    8 couches●    6 shopping carts●    4 pallets●    1 fridge ●    1 dishwasher full of silverware and glassAllentown: 100 bags, 15 TVs, 30 tiresBeechview: 30 bags, 6 TV's, 15 tires, one birdhouseBloomfield: 23 bags, 7 TVs, 10 tires and one refrigeratorBrighton Heights: 29 bags, 2 TVs, one tire and an umbrellaBrookline: 13 bags, 1 TV, 10 tiresCalifornia-Kirkbride: 7 bags, 9 TVs, 8 tires, furniture and a freezer Carrick/Overbrook: 50 bags, 23 Tvs, 12 tires, and one couchCentral Oakland: 77 bagsDeutschtown: 12 bags, 4 tires and a record playerEast Liberty: 42 bags, 3 TVs, 6 tires, 4 mattresses, and a satellite dishElliott/West End: 18 bags, 3 TVs and a playpenFineview/Perry Hilltop: 109 bagsFriendship: 19 bags, 1 pallet, and office furnitureGarfield: 56 bags, 6 TVs, 14 tires, 10 mattresses, and 5 pairs of rollerskatesGreenfield: 21 bagsHazelwood: 27 bags and 4 TVsHighland Park: 11 bagsHill District: 10 bags and 4 tiresHomewood: 6 bagsLarimer: 12 bagsLawrenceville: 40 bags, 10 TVs, 4 tires, 1 mattress and a bed frame Morningside: 12 bags, 1 TV, 1 tire, 1 couch and a dishwasher full of silverwarePolish Hill: 36 bags, 2 TVs, 7 tires and a couchSheraden: 17 bagsSouth Side Slopes: 46 bags, 4 tiresSpring Garden: 2 bags and a gutterSpring Hill: 17 bags, 3 tiresSquirrel Hill: 12 bagsStrip District: 22 bagsTroy Hill: 16 bags, 3 TVs, one tirePenn Hills: 85 bags, one bicycle tire, one hula hoop, and a gun (which went to the police!)→The City offers ways to responsibly dispose of tires and TV’s most days of the week. The Department of Public Works has three drop off sites for tires without rims, two at a time:East End Drop-Off Center (2nd Division)6814 Hamilton Ave Pittsburgh, PA 15208Hazelwood Drop-Off Center (3rd Division)40 Melanchton St Pittsburgh, PA 15207West End Drop-Off Center (5th Division)1330 Hassler St Pittsburgh, PA 15220DPW also now subsidizes electronics waste recycling at 3001 Railroad Ave in the Strip District on Wednesdays and Sundays. Ten 10 minute drop-off appointments can be made at ecsr.net/pittsburgh-recycling or by calling (814) 425-7773. Pick up options are available for an additional fee. To organize your own clean-up and receive supplies from the City, register with the Department of Public Works by filling out an online or paper form, both found here:pittsburghpa.gov/dpw/volunteer-apps/index.html or by contacting 311. To express interest for next year's competition, email: garbageolympicspgh@gmail.com or call/text (412) 206-9482Contacts:Co-organizer Lena Andrews, (412) 607-1957Co-organizer Alicia Carberry, garbageolympicspgh@gmail.com | 24/9/2019 11:54:09 |
| Statement by Mayor William Peduto on State Gun Legislation | PITTSBURGH, PA (September 24, 2019) Mayor William Peduto released the following statement today on House Bill 1066, which would allow out-of-state interest groups like the National Rifle Association to sue municipalities that approve gun safety laws: “While gun violence continues to plague communities across the state and the nation, cities like Pittsburgh are doing their jobs and acting to protect their citizens. Pennsylvania residents support this, with a majority of voters calling for additional gun safety measures, according to the latest statewide poll from Franklin &amp; Marshall College. Instead of representing the people, Republicans in Harrisburg support gun manufacturers and their lobbyists.  I call on state lawmakers to stand up for their constituents and oppose H.B. 1066, and I commend Governor Wolf for his announcement that he will veto the bill if it comes to his desk.” | 24/9/2019 13:01:39 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Wednesday, September 25, 2019 | PITTSBURGH, PA (September 25, 2019) Mayor William Peduto is in New York City today joining government, corporate,, foundation and nonprofit leaders from across the globe at the 2019 United Nations Climate Action Summit. He will be speaking today on a United Nations panel on city-level investment and initiatives in sustainable infrastructure. The Mayor is the North American representative on the Global Covenant of Mayors for Climate and Energy, and on the board of ICLEI USA,/Local Governments for Sustainability. He has also attended U.N. climate change conferences in Paris and Bonn, representing United States municipal leaders at the forefront of the climate change fight. The U.N. describes the summit this way: Climate change is the defining issue of our time and now is the defining moment to do something about it. There is still time to tackle climate change, but it will require an unprecedented effort from all sectors of society. To boost ambition and accelerate actions to implement the Paris Agreement on Climate Change, UN Secretary-General António Guterres is asking leaders, from government, business and civil society, to come to the 2019 Climate Action Summit on 23 September with plans to address the global climate emergency. The Summit will spark the transformation that is urgently needed and propel action that will benefit everyone.Organizers are paying the Mayor’s travel expenses. No city tax dollars are being spent. He returns to Pittsburgh tomorrow. Mayor William Peduto’s Public Schedule – Wednesday, September 25, 2019 United Nations panel on Setting the Scene: Current Challenges for City-Level Investment and Initiatives that are Driving Change, with Mayor Peduto; Marcos Neto, Finance Director, United Nations Development Program; and Ingrid-Gabriela Hoven, German Federal Ministry for Economic Cooperation and DevelopmentTime: 4:30 p.m. Location: 470 Seventh Avenue, New York Panel on Driving Leadership for City-Level Climate InvestmentTime: 5 p.m. Location: 470 Seventh Avenue, New York Panel on Stepping Up Climate Action Across the AtlanticTime: 6 p.m. Location: Facebook, 770 Broadway Avenue, New York | 25/9/2019 08:16:44 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Thursday, September 26, 2019 | Flight to PittsburghTime: NoonMeeting on 2020 BudgetTime: 3:30 p.m.Location: Mayor's Office | 26/9/2019 12:51:34 |
| City Seeking Public Input to Develop Master Plan for Sheraden Park | PITTSBURGH, PA (September 26, 2019) The City of Pittsburgh, Department of City Planning has announced a series of four community meetings surrounding the Sheraden Park Master Plan. The meetings will provide community members the opportunity to provide input on what they would like to see in the park and how the park is currently used.The Sheraden Park Master Plan will guide the investment of the Department of City Planning in designing and constructing a park for the community. This Master Plan is a recommendation of the City’s Open Space, Parks and Recreation Plan.The first meeting will be Thursday. September 26, from 6-8 p.m. The Department of City Planning invites community members to stop by any time during the event to share input on the current use of the park. Future meetings are:- Thursday, October 24 – A presentation of multiple options will be presented and there will be an open period for feedback through the ongoing plan development.- Thursday, December 5 – A draft of the Master Plan will be presented and there will be opportunities for feedback as the plan is finalized.- Thursday, January 23 – The final Sheraden Park Master Plan will be presented and implementation phasing will be shared.All meetings will be from 6-8 p.m. at the Sheraden Healthy Active Living Center, 720 Sherwood Ave.More information about the plan can be found at https://pittsburghpa.gov/dcp/sheraden-park.For More Information:Martina BattistoneProject Manager, Senior Plannermartina.battistone@pittsburghpa.govAndrew DashActing Director, Department of City Planningandrew.dash@pittsburghpa.gov | 26/9/2019 10:49:24 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Friday, September 27, 2019 | Speaking At NALC State ConventionTime: 9:00 A.M.Location: Sheraton Hotel - Station Square, South ShoreMeeting With Deputy Chief Of Staff &amp; Chief Equity Officer Majestic LaneTime: 10:00 A.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County Building2020 Budget Discussion With Chief Of Staff Daniel GilmanTime: 11:00 A.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County Building2020 Budget Discussion With Councilwoman Darlene HarrisTime: 2:00 P.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County BuildingPresenting Proclamation To Pittsburgh Pirates Legend Steve BlassTime: 3:00 P.M.Location: Mayor's Conference Room, City-County BuildingSpeaking At Governor's Award For Public ArtTime: 6:30 P.M.Location: August Wilson Center For African-American Culture, Central Business District | 27/9/2019 08:05:16 |
| Media Advisory: Mayor Peduto to Issue Proclamation to Pirates Legend Steve Blass | PITTSBURGH, PA (September 27, 2019) Mayor William Peduto will present a proclamation this afternoon to Steve Blass, who is retiring from the Pirates this weekend after 60 years as a player and broadcaster.WHERE: Mayor's Conference Room, 5th Floor, City-County BuildingWHEN: 3 p.m., Friday, September 27, 2019 | 27/9/2019 08:35:22 |
| Pittsburgh Green Infrastructure Projects Receive More Than $3 Million in ALCOSAN Grants | PITTSBURGH, PA (September 27, 2019) Five green infrastructure projects in the City of Pittsburgh will receive a $3.3 million boost from GROW grants announced yesterday by the board of the Allegheny County Sanitary Authority. Since ALCOSAN started the Green Revitalization of Our Waterways (GROW) funding program in 2016 it has issued $22 million to 80 projects across greater Pittsburgh, which are collectively estimated to reduce the volume of overflows into the region’s waterways by nearly 127 million gallons. “We know the best way to address stormwater challenges is through green infrastructure solutions, and I’m happy Pittsburgh has ALCOSAN as a partner in this work,” Mayor William Peduto said. Yesterday’s grants included one award of $411,900 to the City of Pittsburgh to construct new stormwater controls in the parking lot and site surrounding the proposed new golf clubhouse and learning center at the Bob O’Connor Golf Course in Schenley Park. Four other green infrastructure projects are by the Pittsburgh Water and Sewer Authority. They are: - $733,000 for phase one of the Maryland Avenue green stormwater infrastructure project to capture and control stormwater runoff along two blocks of Howe Street and Kentucky Avenue   - $1,224,300 for the green stormwater infrastructure project located in Riverview Park near the intersection of Riverview Drive and Mairdale Avenue  - $638,800 for sewer lining for sanitary sewers and excavated point repairs in the Maytide sewershed along Saw Mill Run  - $303,000 for sewer lining for sanitary sewers and excavated point repairs in the Poplargrove Project Area along Becks Run “The Pittsburgh Water and Sewer Authority appreciates receiving this funding through ALCOSAN’s GROW Grant program. We are building green stormwater solutions throughout Pittsburgh to capture, hold, and slowly release stormwater before it enters our sewer system. They help to reduce combined sewer overflows, mitigate flooding, and improve water quality,” said Robert A. Weimar, PWSA Executive Director.Since the inception of the GROW Grant program, PWSA has received funding for 19 stormwater projects. This includes the four projects awarded Thursday. | 27/9/2019 16:15:37 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Monday, September 30, 2019 | Presenting Mayor Sophie Masloff Employee Of The Month AwardTime: 9:45 A.M.Location: Mayor's Conference Room, City-County BuildingMeeting With Coro FellowsTime: 10:15 A.M.Location: Mayor's Conference Room, City-County BuildingSpeaking At EMS Mission:Lifeline EMS Award CeremonyTime: 11:00 A.M.Location: Mayor's Conference Room, City-County BuildingMeeting with Council Budget Office Director Bill UrbanicTime: 12:30 P.M.Location: Mayor's Conference Room, City-County BuildingInterview With Kevin Gavin of WESA-FMTime: 1:00 P.M.Location: Mayor's Office, City-County BuildingCall With Gregory SorceTime: 2:00 P.M.Location: Mayor's Office, City-County BuildingMeeting with James Penna &amp; Marc BlakemanTime: 3:00 P.M.Location: Mayor's Conference Room, City-County Building | 30/9/2019 09:53:42 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Tuesday, October 1, 2019 | Meeting With Carnegie Library Of Pittsburgh President &amp; Director Mary Frances CooperTime: 12:30 P.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County BuildingMeeting With Millie MyersTime: 1:30 P.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County BuildingMeeting With Breanna Tyson &amp; Brett WalshTime: 2:00 P.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County BuildingMeeting With Lisa Evancho, LD, TSTime: 3:00 P.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County BuildingAn Evening With Former Pennsylvania Governors Dick Thornburgh, Tom Ridge, &amp; Ed RendellTime: 6:00 P.M.Location: Carnegie Music Hall - Carnegie Institute, North Oakland | 1/10/2019 08:14:44 |
| Preliminary 2020 Budgets Submitted to Pittsburgh City Council | PITTSBURGH, PA (October 1, 2019) The Peduto Administration has issued preliminary 2020 Operating and Capital budgets to Pittsburgh City Council, in advance of the full budgets due in November. The $605.5 million operating budget contains no tax increases, continues record investments in paving and infrastructure, and continues record spending on police, fire and paramedics. It is balanced next year and through all years of the five-year forecast. In agreement with financial reforms reached by the Mayor and City Council, the budget: - Contains a general fund balance of 10% or higher of yearly budgeted expenditures in each year - Contains sufficient funding for debt service payments - Dedicates $14.5 million in PAYGO (Pay as You Go) that transfers to the capital budget - Assumes a $50 million bond issuance in 2020 and each year after (2021 thru 2024) - Contains an additional amount dedicated to the pension fund above the minimum municipal obligation (MMO) During its years under state financial oversight the City was required to file preliminary budgets each September. While that state oversight has ended, the administration and Council agreed to keep issuing such tentative budgets each fall. As usual under City law, the official 2020 budgets will not be sent to City Council for its approval until the second week of November. Council then has until the end of the year to approve the budget plans. An electronic copy of the preliminary operating budget is here and the preliminary capital budget here. | 30/9/2019 16:46:57 |
| City of Pittsburgh Launches Reclamation Program to Recover Lost or Missing City Records and Artifacts | PITTSBURGH, PA (October 1, 2019) The Office of the Mayor and Office of the City Clerk are seeking the public’s help in recovering lost or missing city records and artifacts.In 2016, the City of Pittsburgh began the process of evaluating and cataloging its vast collection of historical materials and records. These records, some of which are over two hundred years old, range from maps to minute books chronicling some of the earliest days of Pittsburgh’s history.As steps were taken to protect and secure this heritage, it became apparent that materials had likely been taken from City offices and facilities over the course of centuries.Today, the City is launching efforts to reclaim such records and artifacts.Inspired by a 2016 effort by the Pittsburgh Public Schools and The Friends of Art to reclaim stolen art from our public schools, the City of Pittsburgh will offer amnesty to those who return suspected City or Authority owned property.The City Clerk’s Office has already been successful in ensuring the safe return of a long missing minute book chronicling the Borough of Pittsburgh from 1794 to 1802. First reported missing in 1895, it was later discovered that the book was sold to the Pennsylvania Historical Society in 1912. The Society graciously returned the book upon learning of the theft.More recently, the Meanor Family of North Carolina donated a collection of papers and photographs from the City’s first “City Recorder,” Adam Mercer Brown. Brown was appointed to the executive position in 1901 after state-sanctioned changes to the City’s charter replaced the position of Mayor with that of Recorder. The donated items notably include Recorder Brown’s original oath of office.“Pittsburgh has a rich and dynamic history. These records not only tell the story of our city, we find many of them useful as we tackle today’s challenges from infrastructure to housing.” said Mayor William Peduto.While no exact list of missing materials exists, they can range from historic maps and minute books to correspondence and artifacts of Pittsburgh’s mayors:- Historical maps of roadways and street infrastructure, typically from the Department of City Planning and the Department of Public Works;- Blueprints and elevations of City buildings, bridges, park projects and more, typically from the Department of Public Works;- Papers, records, and correspondence of past Mayors of Pittsburgh, members of City Council, and department directors;- Gifts or artifacts received by past mayoral administrations;- Badges, patches, insignia, and emblems of Public Safety Bureaus;- Minute books chronicling City Council and City Commissions.“This initiative is about recovering pieces of our history,” said City Clerk Brenda Pree. “It will complement the work we’ve been doing over the past several years to better manage City records and to ensure that the public has access to them.”Members of the public who believe they may possess or know of historic City of Pittsburgh or Authority owned records and materials are encouraged to contact City Archivist Nick Hartley at nicholas.hartley@pittsburghpa.gov or 412-255-0873 with a description of their findings.Media Contact: James Hill, Executive Assistant to the Mayor – 412-522-3320 or james.hill@pittsburghpa.gov. | 1/10/2019 14:55:27 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Wednesday, October 2, 2019 | Meeting With Chief Resilience Officer Grant ErvinTime: 11:00 A.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County BuildingMeeting With Chief Of Staff Daniel Gilman, Director Of Mobility &amp; Infrastructure Karina Ricks, &amp; Director Of Innovation &amp; Performance Santiago GarcesTime: 12:00 P.M.Location: Mayor's Conference Room, City-County BuildingInterview With The Pittsburgh Post-Gazette's Anya SostekTime: 1:00 P.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County BuildingWeekly Meeting With Director Of Public Safety Wendell Hissrich &amp; Chief Of Police Scott SchubertTime: 2:00 P.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County BuildingMeeting With Sheil PatelTime: 3:00 P.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County Building | 2/10/2019 09:50:25 |
| Statement by Mayor Peduto on Governor Wolf's Executive Order on Climate Change | PITTSBURGH, PA (October 3, 2019) Mayor William Peduto issued the following statement on the Executive Order Governor Tom Wolf signed today on Pennsylvania joining the Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative (RGGI), in which neighboring states collaborate to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and generate economic growth: “By creating a market-based approach for investment in building energy efficiency, locally-sourced clean and renewable power generation and emissions reduction, Governor Wolf is helping to further innovation, create green jobs and respond strongly to the challenge of climate change. Locally, Pennsylvania’s inclusion in RGGI will provide Pittsburgh a great resource to help advance the City’s 2030 climate targets of 50 percent emissions reduction and 100 percent renewable energy.” | 3/10/2019 11:26:26 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Thursday, October 3, 2019 | Jurassic World STEM Celebration With School District Of Pittsburgh &amp; Superintendent Dr. Anthony HamletTime: 11:00 A.M.Location: Westwood Elementary School, WestwoodLunch With Partner4WorkTime: 12:00 P.M.Location: Rivers Club - One Oxford Centre, Central Business District Commonwealth Building GroundbreakingTime: 4:00 P.M.Location: Commonwealth Building - Fourth Avenue, Central Business District | 3/10/2019 08:47:17 |
| Media Advisory: Mayor Peduto to Hold Press Conference Friday on Sustainable Development | PITTSBURGH, PA (October 3, 2019) Mayor William Peduto will join community stakeholders at noon Friday on the portico of the City-County Building to make a special announcement on sustaintable development.WHERE: City-County Building PorticoWHEN: 12 p.m., Friday, October 4, 2019 | 3/10/2019 16:44:26 |
| State Grant to Support Rapid Rehousing Services in Pittsburgh | PITTSBURGH, PA (October 4, 2019) A state grant to the City of Pittsburgh will allow for rapid rehousing services for households experiencing homelessness. The Pennsylvania Department of Community and Economic Development last week issued a $250,000 Emergency Solutions Grant to the City, which will allow it to work with Auberle to provide services  including housing location services, short and medium-term rental assistance, and housing stability services to approximately 25 households who are experiencing homelessness. Assistance will be provided to both adults-only households and households with children.   Households will be prioritized through a needs assessment, conducted by the City’s local coordinated intake, the Allegheny Link, for referral into the rapid rehousing program. All households entering the rapid rehousing program will be persons who are living on the street, staying in an emergency shelter, or fleeing domestic violence. Auberle’s programming includes a range of services, through community partners, that can support those persons receiving rapid rehousing assistance, including the Employment Institute, which served over 537 individuals in need of career training or educational assistance. In similar rapid rehousing programs, Auberle has been able to take persons from homelessness to housed in an average of 18 days. Last year Auberle served 4,000 individuals and families in our region. Auberle will operate the rapid rehousing program out of their location at 304 Wood Street. Persons experiencing a housing crisis can call the Allegheny Link at 1-866-730-2368. | 3/10/2019 16:47:52 |
| Grandview Avenue Traffic Calming | PITTSBURGH, PA (October 4, 2019) The Department of Mobility and Infrastructure (DOMI) is pleased to announce the installation of temporary rubber speed humps and upgraded pavement markings on Grandview Avenue in Pittsburgh’s Duquesne Heights and Mount Washington neighborhoods.The purpose of the project is to discourage motorist speeding and to enhance pedestrian safety. Through 2018 speed and volume data collected at Grandview Avenue at Kearsage, it was noted that 61% of motorists traveled over the posted speed limit of 25 mph.  After completion of the project, the Department will collect data to determine if the project’s objectives have been accomplished.The project will include the installation of five temporary rubber speed humps between Bertha and Shiloh Streets. The temporary speed humps will be removed after a 60-day evaluation period and data will be reported to the public.  Pavement marking upgrades will occur between Oneida to Shiloh Streets, and will include painting 27 paint bump-outs; upgrading 17 existing parallel-style crosswalks to high-visibility continental-style crosswalks; installing 10 new marked crosswalks.Pavement marking work is tentatively expected to begin on October 7, 2019, and last approximately five days, weather permitting.  Hours of construction will be Monday through Friday, 7:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. Lane restrictions may occur.  Alternating through-traffic will be maintained.  We understand this may be a short-term inconvenience and we hope to work together with you in a professional and amicable manner for the long-term improvement of your neighborhood.Installation of rubber speed humps will be performed by the Department of Public Works for the Department of Mobility and Infrastructure.  The installation date is to be determined, but the installation should last approximately two days, weather permitting.  Traffic on Grandview Avenue will be maintained during construction.If you have questions about this project or other traffic calming projects, you may contact DOMI by email at trafficcalming@pittsburghpa.gov, or by calling 3-1-1.  You can learn more about this project and DOMI’s Neighborhood Traffic Calming Program at www.pittsburghpa.gov/domi/traffic-calming. | 4/10/2019 13:06:00 |
| Pittsburgh Becoming Second City to Integrate UN Sustainable Development Goals | PITTSBURGH, PA (October 4, 2019) Mayor William Peduto today announced a public commitment that Pittsburgh – along with regional along with public, private and nonprofit partners – will work to meet the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (UN SDGs), 17 worldwide goals to eradicate poverty, protect the planet, and improve the quality of life for every human being.As the second city in the nation to formally integrate these best practices into its goals and policies, Pittsburgh will again mark itself as a leader in achieving a more sustainable and equitable future for all.  “The UN SDGs provide a framework for holding Pittsburgh accountable to a common set of goals that will make it a better and more resilient city for all. Working with stakeholders across the city, these goals will allow us to aid the residents who need our help now and the future generations of Pittsburghers to come,” Mayor Peduto said. Today’s announcement follows the Mayor’s attendance at a forum at the 74th United Nations General Assembly on September 23rd to discuss regional sustainability accomplishments with Carnegie Mellon University, Chatham University, the University of Pittsburgh and the Pittsburgh Foundation. Pittsburgh is establishing a partnership network of local, national and international organizations that are working to help measure progress against the Sustainable Development Goals. The Mayor has aligned the SDGs with local investment areas of the ONEPGH Investment Prospectus, a collection of 46 priority investments funded and implemented with cross-sectoral support to improve livability for all residents by 2030. Together, with the partnership of institutional, nonprofit, business and civic sectors, the SDGs will be used to shape measurement standards, ensure equitable public engagement, and identify areas of need to allocate public resources. The UN SDGs are: - No Poverty - Zero Hunger - Good Health and Well-being - Quality Education - Gender Equality - Clean Water and Sanitation - Affordable and Clean Energy - Decent Work and Economic Growth - Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure - Reduced Inequality - Sustainable Cities and Communities - Responsible Consumption and Production - Climate Action - Life Below Water - Life on Land - Peace and Justice Strong Institutions - Partnerships to Achieve the Goal In the area of responding to and serving the City’s most vulnerable communities, the Mayor this year formed the Office of Equity, which works with partners to adopt policies and practices to improve livability and resilience in neighborhoods. The City will measure the success of its comprehensive and neighborhood planning based on its alignment with the UN SDGs, exceeding sustainable development goals outlined in ONEPGH and the Climate Action Plan.   The City is addressing sustainability issues through efforts such as expanding its electric vehicle fleet, constructing separated bike lanes, prioritizing green infrastructure for neighborhoods, incorporating renewable and district energy solutions, and building efficiency into its zoning code incentive programs along riverfronts and in the Uptown EcoInnovation District. New York City last year became the first city in the world to formally adopt the SDGs. Mayor Peduto met with New York Mayor Bill de Blasio while at the UN last week to discuss his administration’s efforts. | 4/10/2019 09:03:46 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Friday, October 4, 2019 | Sustainable Development Goals Press ConferenceTime: 12:00 P.M.Location: City-County Building Portico, Central Business DistrictSpeaking To Kevin Kearns University Of Pittsburgh ClassTime: 12:30 P.M.Location: Wesley W. Posvar Hall - University Of Pittsburgh, Central OaklandPhone Call With John DickTime: 2:30 P.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County BuildingMeeting With President Of Council Bruce Kraus, Chief Of Staff Daniel Gilman, Chief Of Police Scott Schubert, &amp; Commander Karen DixonTime: 3:00 P.M.Location: Mayor's Conference Room, City-County BuildingPhone Call With Charlie HumphreyTime: 4:00 P.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County Building26th Annual Allegheny-Fayette CLC Honorees BanquetTime: 6:00 P.M.Location: Sheraton Hotel - Station Square, South Shore | 4/10/2019 08:48:03 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Monday, October 7, 2019 | Meeting With Chief Of Staff Daniel Gilman &amp; Chief Resilience Officer Grant ErvinTime: 11:00 A.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County Building2020 Budget Meeting With President Of Council Bruce KrausTime: 2:00 P.M.Location: Mayor's Conference Room, City-County Building2020 Budget Meeting With Councilman Corey O'ConnorTime: 2:30 P.M.Location: Mayor's Conference Room, City-County Building2020 Budget Meeting With Councilman Daniel LavelleTime: 3:30 P.M.Location: Mayor's Conference Room, City-County Building | 7/10/2019 08:28:20 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Tuesday, October 8, 2019 | Speaking At Pittsburgh City Council's "Stronger Than Hate Day" ProclamationTime: 10:00 A.M.Location: Council Chamber, City-County BuildingMeeting With German Consul GeneralTime: 11:00 A.M.Location: Mayor's Conference Room, City-County BuildingInterview On New Granada Theater Renovation Project With Hill District Community Development CorporationTime: 12:15 P.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County BuildingGARE TrainingTime: 1:15 P.M.Location: David L. Lawrence Convention Center, Central Business DistrictPhone Call With Joe PowersTime: 2:30 P.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County Building2020 Budget Meeting With Councilman Anthony CoghillTime: 3:00 P.M.Location: Mayor's Conference Room, City-County Building2020 Budget Meeting With Councilwoman Theresa Kail-SmithTime: 4:00 P.M.Location: Mayor's Conference Room, City-County BuildingWeekly Scheduling MeetingTime: 4:30 P.M.Location: Mayor's Conference Room, City-County BuildingSpeaking To University Of Pittsburgh College DemocratsTime: 9:00 P.M.Location: University Of Pittsburgh, Oakland | 8/10/2019 09:24:35 |
| Mayor Peduto, Councilman Lavelle and URA to Catalyze Investments in the Lower and Greater Hill District | PITTSBURGH, PA (October 9, 2019) The board of the Urban Redevelopment Authority of Pittsburgh will make a series of votes tomorrow to catalyze investments in the Lower and Greater Hill District that will have a meaningful impact on Hill District residents and future generations. After numerous community conversations, community briefings and outreach events, the URA board heard the priorities as communicated by the Hill District to be the availability of affordable housing on the site, access to well-paying jobs, preservation of the Hill's cultural legacy, and early investments in the Greater Hill as the development in the Lower Hill begins.The Hill District community had previously reached a Community Collaboration and Implementation Plan (CCIP) agreement with the Pittsburgh Penguins, which has development rights to the Lower 28-acre site. Councilman R. Daniel Lavelle, Mayor William Peduto and URA officials wanted to see even more in the agreement directed to ensuring the work would be a development beneficial to all, and with less burden on the public to build a multimillion parking garage on the site. As a result, a new agreement with the Penguins will advance a parking garage mixed-use development that includes greater levels of affordable housing.  Affordable housing will use project-based vouchers from the Housing Authority of the City of Pittsburgh and guarantee deeper affordability for a longer term than under the CCIP, making 20% of the units available to residents at 50-60% Area Median Income (AMI) for 20 years. The housing will be developed with Intergen, a local minority development partner from the Hill District. “These new plans contain commitments that are beneficial to all, including support of local small businesses, affordable housing and workforce development. It delivers on our promises of bringing equity and inclusivity to this historic site, and I thank all those in the Hill District community for bringing us to this day,” Mayor Peduto said."This is really an exciting step forward. If you go back over the history of this project, the first effort was the One Hill CBA, followed by the Community Collaboration and Implementation Plan, which we're still pushing forward to this day," said Councilman Lavelle, who is also a URA board member. "Now we have the opportunity to provide even more benefits on top of those two agreements that the community can begin to realize immediately."“As a lifelong Hill District resident, I am excited to see us take an important next step towards capitalizing the Greater Hill District Reinvestment Fund, which has the ability to unlock generational wealth building opportunities for long-standing Hill District residents,” URA Deputy Director Diamonte Walker said. “The Hill District is a vibrant, self-determining community and the board’s vote will signal a commitment to investing in the neighborhood to help it reach its fullest potential.” Furthermore, under the new agreement: - The Penguins and their partners will capitalize the Greater Hill District Reinvestment Fund. The Hill District community will be instrumental in determining the prioritized investments to be made by the Fund. - The Penguins and their partners will provide space in the development for 29 years for the Catapult minority business incubation space and will further fund the program. Catapult is an entrepreneur-in-residence program that will allow Hill District businesses the opportunity to have space in the retail component of the Lower Hill.- The Penguins and their partners will work with Partner4Work to locate a First Source center on the site and utilize intro to the trades programs as well as meeting all existing union and workforce development commitments in the CCIP. - The Penguins and their partners will redevelop the basketball court, playground and recreation space at Ammon Rec Center on Bedford Avenue. - The Penguins and their partners will redevelop a computer lab space at Ammon Rec Center to allow for Rec2Tech programming.  - The Penguins and their partners will finish the Curtain Call project, preserving the cultural legacy of the Hill District and the importance of ensuring those stories are honored and remembered. - The Penguins and their partners will provide the City with a new EMS/Rescue station within the parking garage that will allow the City to make a much needed move out of its current space on the Boulevard of the Allies, saving the City millions of dollars in needed reconstruction costs. The City, URA and Sports &amp; Exhibition Authority have agreed to advance: - A 75% parking tax diversion plan for City Council consideration and adoption to be applied to development costs - A $1 million affordable housing grant - A $3 million investment in support of parking garage construction - Onsite Local Economic Revitalization Tax Assistance (LERTA) abatements to be used on the development for taxing body consideration and adoptionThe URA board will make seven different votes regarding the Lower and Greater Hill plans at its regularly scheduled 2 p.m. monthly board meeting tomorrow. Contacts:Timothy McNulty, Communications Director, City of Pittsburgh, 412.660.1999 or timothy.mcnulty@pittsburghpa.govGigi Saladna, Chief Communications Officer, Urban Redevelopment Authority of Pittsburgh, 412.255.6434 or gsaladna@ura.org | 9/10/2019 15:47:28 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Wednesday, October 9, 2019 | Phone Call With Brandi FisherTime: 12:00 P.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County BuildingMeeting With Jim CiminoTime: 1:00 P.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County BuildingMeeting With Mardi IslerTime: 3:30 P.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County Building | 9/10/2019 09:59:15 |
| URA Board to Vote on Preserving Affordable Housing in Highland Park and Homewood | PITTSBURGH, PA (October 9, 2019) Affordable housing will be preserved in Highland Park, and affordable units in Homewood will be renovated for those entering the workforce after incarceration, under measures going before the board of the Urban Redevelopment Authority of Pittsburgh on Thursday. “The affordable housing challenge in Pittsburgh is multifaceted, and requires not only building new housing but preserving the affordability we already have, which keeps long-term residents from being displaced,” Mayor William Peduto said. The Housing Opportunity Fund’s Rental Gap Program has agreed to a $110,000 loan with Stanton Avenue Associates (a collaboration between the Highland Park Community Development Corp and the Bloomfield-Garfield Corp) to renovate 5635 Stanton Avenue, where there are currently affordable rental units already fully occupied. The 0%, 15-year loan will be used to complete critical exterior repairs, including removal of rotting wood fascia, exterior painting of all wood surfaces, replacement of exterior doors, and repairs to leaking windows. There will also be interior repairs required due to water penetration from the roof and windows. By making the repairs the affordable units will continue to be preserved for existing residents. In Homewood, the Trade Institute of Pittsburgh is seeking a $100,000 Rental Housing Development &amp; Improvement Program (RHDIP) loan to rehabilitate units at 7911 Susquehanna Street. TIP’s pilot Workforce Housing program aims to rehabilitate nearby properties for their students who are reentering the workforce after being incarcerated in order to reduce the risk of homelessness and overcome the hurdles of reentrants obtaining affordable housing.  By rehabilitating 7911 Susquehanna Street, TIP seeks to provide job training and valuable skills to a subset of students who are at risk and offer weekly job search and placement services, trauma-informed counseling sessions, case management support, financial literacy and life skills training. TIP students will be simultaneously living in and renovating 7911 Susquehanna Street while receiving wrap-around services and developing skills that will allow them to one day be financially independent.  Action Housing is working with TIP on this program and will assist in finding permanent, affordable housing once the students are financially stable and can afford to live independently, freeing up the rehabilitated units for other students. | 9/10/2019 10:18:34 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Thursday, October 10, 2019 | Delivering Opening Remarks At SASE ConferenceTime: 11:00 A.M.Location: David L. Lawrence Convention Center, Central Business DistrictMeeting with Allegheny Conference Stefani PashmanTime: 12:30Location: Mayor’s Conference Room, City-County BuildingRibbon Cutting Celebration For Cornerstone Village Phase IITime: 2:00 P.M.Location: 6434 Station Street, East LibertyBlessing In A Backpack At Urban Pathways SchoolTime: 4:30 P.M.Location: Urban Pathways School, Central Business District | 10/10/2019 09:23:33 |
| Mayor Peduto Names Former Obama Administration Official Kinsey Casey Chief Operations Officer | PITTSBURGH, PA (October 10, 2019) Mayor William Peduto has named Kinsey Casey as the City of Pittsburgh’s new Chief Operations Officer. In this role Casey will oversee all day-to-day operations of the City with an emphasis on coordinating activities among departments such as Mobility and Infrastructure, Parks, and Public Works, and with city-affiliated agencies like the Pittsburgh Parking Authority and the Pittsburgh Water and Sewer Authority. Casey is the former Chief of Staff of Emerge America, the national recruitment and training organization for Democratic women interested in elected office, and the former Deputy Chief of Staff for University of Pittsburgh Chancellor Patrick Gallagher.  She replaces former COO Guy Costa, who retired early this year after 40 years in public service. “The City of Pittsburgh is lucky to have someone of Kinsey’s wide knowledge and experience to come on board, and help us deliver the highest quality services to our residents,” Mayor Peduto said. In addition to working for Emerge America and Pitt, Casey worked for eight years in Washington D.C. in President Barack Obama’s administration in roles including Chief of Staff, Office of Global Partnerships, in the Department of State; National Security Director, Presidential Personnel, in the White House; and Lead Advance, Department of Homeland Security. Casey has a bachelor’s degree in Political Science and History from Wagner College in Staten Island, NY. She lives in Shadyside. Her first day in office is Monday, October 14. | 10/10/2019 12:22:58 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Friday, October 11, 2019 | Meeting With Councilman R. Daniel Lavelle &amp; Chief Of Staff Daniel GilmanTime: 10:30 A.M.Location: Mayor's Conference Room, City-County Building2020 Budget Meeting With Councilman Rev. Ricky BurgessTime: 11:30 A.M.Location: Mayor's Conference Room, City-County BuildingAll For All Summit Forum - Building A More Welcoming USTime: 12:15 P.M.Location: Kelly-Strayhorn Theater, East LibertyMeeting With Department Of City Planning Visiting ConsultantsTime: 2:30 P.M.Location: Mayor's Conference Room, City-County Building | 11/10/2019 08:35:10 |
| Mayor William Peduto Announces New Assistant Directors in Departments of Mobility and Infrastructure and Parks and Recreation | PITTSBURGH, PA (October 11, 2019) Mayor William Peduto today announced the hiring of two top officials in the Departments of Mobility and Infrastructure and Parks and Recreation. Kimberly Lucas is the new Assistant Director for Policy, Planning and Permitting in DOMI. She comes to Pittsburgh from the Washington D.C. District Department of Transportation where she had been Supervisory Transportation Management Planner/Sustainable Transportation Branch Manager since 2018, and previously Bicycle and Pedestrian Program Specialist/Program Manager of Bikeshare and Bicycle Parking programs. Lucas has a master’s degree in City Planning from the University of California, Berkeley, and a bachelor’s in Psychology &amp; History of Art from the University of Virginia, Charlottesville. Kathryn Vargas is the new Assistant Director of Community Recreation/Youth and Families in the Department of Parks and Recreation. She comes to city government from the United Way of Southwestern Pennsylvania, where since 2016 she has been Director/Allegheny Partners for Out of School Time, and previously was Senior Manager/United for Children.  Vargas has a master’s of Social Work from the University of Pittsburgh and a bachelor’s in Sociology and International Studies from Mount St. Mary’s University in Emmitsburg, MD. Kimberly LucasKathryn Vargas | 11/10/2019 09:56:14 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Saturday and Sunday, October 12-13, 2019 | Saturday, October 12, 2019Pittsburgh Columbus Day ParadeTime: 10:00 A.M.Location: Liberty Avenue, BloomfieldCouncil District 2 Housing Resource FairTime: 11:00 A.M.Location: School District of Pittsburgh Greenway Professional Development Center, Crafton HeightsPoint Breeze Fall FestivalTime: 11:45 A.M.Location: Sterrett School Field, Point BreezePigtober FestTime: 5:45 P.M.Location: Troy Hill Citizens Park, Troy HillPresenting Proclamation To GASP On The Occasion Of Their 50th AnniversaryTime: 6:45 P.M.Location: Rodef Shalom, ShadysideSunday, October 13, 2019No public events scheduled. | 12/10/2019 09:16:05 |
| Boundary Street Traffic Calming Project To Begin | PITTSBURGH, PA (October 14, 2019) The City of Pittsburgh Department of Mobility and Infrastructure (DOMI) is pleased to announce the installation of speed humps on Boundary Street from Joncaire Street to Forbes Avenue. This project will also include bike directional signage from the Junction Hollow to the Central Oakland neighborhood.Speed and volume data collected at Boundary Street through 2018 found that 87% of motorists traveled over the posted speed limit of 25 mph. After completion of the project, the Department will collect data to determine if traffic calming project objectives have been accomplished.The project will include the installation of five permanent speed humps on Boundary Street from the railroad tracks under Forbes Avenue to Joncaire Street, and the installation of shared lane markings and directional signage for cyclists from Junction Hollow Trail to Ellsworth Street. Speed hump installation will include permanent signage and pavement markings to alert drivers of approaching speed humps.Speed hump installation is expected to occur on Saturday, October 19, 2019 weather permitting. Hours of construction will be from 7:00 a.m. – 4:00 p.m. Due to the narrow lane width on Boundary Street, a total road closure will occur, with vehicles being detoured along Fifth Avenue, South Bouquet Street, and Joncaire Street. Emergency response vehicles and bicyclists will be permitted to use Boundary Street. DOMI understands this may be a short-term inconvenience and hopes to work together with residents in a professional and amicable manner for the long-term improvement of the neighborhood.If you have questions about this project or other traffic calming projects, you may contact DOMI by email at trafficcalming@pittsburghpa.gov, or by calling 3-1-1. You can learn more about DOMI’s Neighborhood Traffic Calming Program at www.pittsburghpa.gov/domi/traffic-calming. | 14/10/2019 13:50:48 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Monday, October 14, 2019 | No public events scheduled | 14/10/2019 09:57:29 |
| Traffic Calming and Bike-Ped Improvements Coming to South Side Flats | PITTSBURGH, PA (October 14, 2019) The City of Pittsburgh Department of Mobility and Infrastructure (DOMI) is pleased to announce a Southside Neighborhood Streets project that includes pedestrian and bicycle improvements funded by the Southwest Pennsylvania Commission's Transportation Alternatives Program, with oversight by the Pennsylvania Department of Transportation. The purpose of the project is to create a pedestrian and bicycle friendly corridor as an alternative to E. Carson Street from 10th Street to the Hot Metal Bridge. The project includes the installation of speed humps on Muriel Street from 16th Street to 13th Street, the construction of a pedestrian and bicycle shared-use ramp under the Birmingham Bridge, and the installation of route and directional signage.Michael Facchiano Contracting, Inc. will be temporarily closing Muriel Street from 16th Street to 13th Street as part of the project. The road closure will occur on Tuesday, October 15, 2019, between 9:00 AM to 3:00 p.m., with flagging operations continuing until 5:00 p.m. This work will be dependent on weather conditions and may possibly continue on Wednesday, October 16, 2019.Please be advised that there will be NO PARKING on Muriel from 16th Street to 13th Street during the construction operation. Access to and from driveways will be limited or inaccessible. Please contact the On-Site Job Superintendent for further information or contact Michael Facchiano Contracting at 412- 344-5503.DOMI understands this may be a short-term inconvenience and hopes to work together with residents in a professional and amicable manner for the long-term improvement of the neighborhood.If you have questions about this project or other traffic calming projects, you may contact us DOMI by email at trafficcalming@pittsburghpa.gov, or by calling 3-1-1. You can learn more about DOMI’s Neighborhood Traffic Calming Program at www.pittsburghpa.gov/domi/traffic-calming. | 14/10/2019 13:57:29 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Tuesday, October 15, 2019 | Meeting With Karl HornTime: 11:00 A.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County BuildingMeeting With Councilman Daniel LavelleTime: 12:00 P.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County BuildingMeeting With Chief Of Staff Daniel Gilman &amp; Director Of Management &amp; Budget Kevin PawlosTime: 1:00 P.M.Location: Mayor's Conference Room, City-County BuildingInterview With Post IndustrialTime: 2:30 P.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County BuildingCelebrating Wabtec's 150th AnniversaryTime: 4:30 P.M.Location: Wabtec HQ - Isabella Street, North ShoreDinner With American Middle East InstituteTime: 6:00 P.M.Location: Carnegie Music Hall - Carnegie Institute, North OaklandGreater Pittsburgh Community Media Awards CeremonyTime: 7:00 P.M.Location: Alloy 26 - Nova Place, Allegheny Center | 15/10/2019 08:52:47 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Wednesday, October 16, 2019 | Speaking At 2019 Standing Firm LuncheonTime: 12:00 P.M.Location: Omni William Penn Hotel, Central Business DistrictInterview With WESA's Kevin GavinTime: 1:00 P.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County BuildingWeekly Meeting With Director Of Public Safety Wendell Hissrich &amp; Chief Of Police Scott SchubertTime: 2:00 P.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County BuildingAsk Me Anything InterviewTime: 3:00 P.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County BuildingMeeting With Dave OnoratoTime: 4:00 P.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County BuildingPresenting  50th Anniversary Proclamation To NeighborWorksTime: 5:30 P.M.Location: The Mattress Factory, Central North SideCitywide Public Safety MeetingTime: 7:00 P.M.Location: Saint Pius X. Byzantine Catholic Church, Carrick | 16/10/2019 09:33:45 |
| Love Your Block Grant Application Now Open | PITTSBURGH, PA (October 16, 2019) The City of Pittsburgh is excited to announce applications are now open for Love Your Block. Love Your Block is a City of Pittsburgh mini-grant program to revitalize our city- block-by-block.  Nonprofit organizations across Pittsburgh are invited to propose projects for up to $1,500 in funds and the support of key city departments. Funding supports volunteer-fueled neighborhood improvement projects for Spring and Summer 2020 that combat blight and build community resilience.  Projects may include but are not limited: community garden maintenance, neighborhood clean-ups, or tree and flower planting. Successful projects will build strong partnerships, leverage donations, and most importantly, engage neighbors.  You can find more information on Love Your Block, including detailed project guidelines and project ideas, at https://pittsburghpa.gov/oca/lyb.  Questions can be directed to Leah Friedman at leah.friedman@pittsburghpa.gov or by calling the Office of Community Affairs at 412-255-4773. Stay up to date with Love Your Block and all OCA programs at newsletter.pittsburghpa.gov.  | 16/10/2019 14:26:00 |
| Swinburne Street Construction Begins Next Week | PITTSBURGH, PA (October 17, 2019) The Department of Mobility and Infrastructure (DOMI) is announcing the commencement of construction of the Swinburne Street wall and soil stabilization project following several months of extensive geotechnical analysis and engineering design. This $630,000 project will correct an ongoing slope instability issue and restore unrestricted two-way traffic.Swinburne Street construction will begin the week of October 21, 2019 and last approximately five months. During construction, Swinburne Street will be closed to all traffic in both directions between Greenfield Avenue and Edgehill Street / Childs Street on the Greenfield/South Oakland border. A detour route will be provided. Access to the Sestili Nursery will still be maintained.Swinburne Street is one of several streets which have been affected by landslides over the last year as a result of record breaking wet weather. The $1 million response to the Greenleaf landslide in the West End last year and Swinburne Street represent a significant expenditure in landslide repairs. Several other large scale slide response projects will begin in the coming months including List Street, Semicir Street, William Street, Forward Avenue and additional smaller projects. It is expected that more than $8 million of local capital will be invested this year to protect and restore public right of ways. For questions, please contact the Department of Mobility and Infrastructure at domi@pittsburghpa.gov or 412-255-8850. | 17/10/2019 16:55:58 |
| Mossfield Street in Garfield to Close Saturday for Hillside Cleanup | PITTSBURGH, PA (October 17, 2019) The City of Pittsburgh’s Department of Public Works will be closing Mossfield Street between Schenley Avenue and North Mathilda Street in Garfield to cut down trees and clean up the hillside.This work will be performed on Saturday, October 19, 2019 from 7:00 a.m. to 1:00 p.m. The detour traveling Eastbound will be North Mathilda Street to Schenley Avenue and vice versa traveling Westbound.If you have any questions regarding this road closure, please contact Alan Asbury at 412-255-2597 or Denny Robinson at 412-255-2530. | 17/10/2019 15:44:01 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Thursday, October 17, 2019 | Commercial Cleaners Contract RallyTime: 2:00 P.M.Location: 2545 Railroad Street, Strip DistrictWeekly Scheduling MeetingTime: 3:30 P.M.Location: Mayor's Conference Room, City-County BuildingOpening Reception For Holocaust Center Of Pittsburgh "Lest We Forget"  ExhibitionTime: 4:30 P.M.Location: Cathedral of Learning Lawn - University of Pittsburgh, North OaklandSouthern Pennsylvania Engineering Outreach EventTime: 6:00 P.M.Location: The Engineers Society, Central Business District | 17/10/2019 09:33:04 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Friday, October 18, 2019 | No public schedule. | 18/10/2019 09:07:15 |
| Lane Closures Announced for McFarren Street Bridge Project | PITTSBURGH, PA (October 18, 2019) The City of Pittsburgh Department of Mobility and Infrastructure is announcing that the McFarren Street Bridge construction project in Duck Hollow will be resuming work today, October 18, 2019. During construction, a section of Old Browns Hill Road will be reduced to one lane of traffic throughout the winter months to accommodate construction equipment and the protection and safety of the travelers on the roadway.DOMI appreciates patience and cooperation by travelers during this time. The overall project completion is scheduled for completion in October, 2020. If you have any questions regarding this project, please contact the Project Manager at patrick.bopp@pittsburghpa.gov. | 18/10/2019 11:18:38 |
| Media Advisory: Mayor Peduto to Host Announcement on August Wilson House Monday | REMINDERPITTSBURGH, PA (October 20, 2019) Mayor William Peduto will host a press conference Monday morning on a major funding announcement regarding the August Wilson House, the playwright's Hill District childhood home.WHO:Mayor William PedutoDuquesne University President Ken GormleyAugust Wilson Home Executive Director Paul A. Ellis Jr.WHAT: Funding announcement on August Wilson HomeWHERE:Mayor's Conference Room, 5th Floor, City-County BuildingWHEN:10 a.m., Monday, October 21, 2019 | 18/10/2019 15:37:32 |
| Portion of S. 18th Street to Close for One Week in November | PITTSBURGH, PA (October 21, 2019) The CSX Railroad Company will soon begin laying new tracks crossing South 18th Street in the South Side Flats.Construction will begin November 4, 2019 through November 8, 2019. South 18th Street at South Shore Court will be closed for the entire week and there will be NO vehicle access to Southside Riverfront Park and the South Side Dog Park. Pedestrian and bicycle access will still be available to the park via South Water Street at S. 27th Street.Those with questions regarding about this road closure may contact Alan Asbury at 412-255-2597 or Denny Robinson at 412-255-2530. | 21/10/2019 15:16:10 |
| Mayor Peduto Issues Dr. Jim Withers Key to City | PITTSBURGH, PA (October 21, 2019) Mayor William Peduto today issued the Key to the City, Pittsburgh government's highest civilian honor, to Dr. Jim Withers for his decades of work caring for people experiencing homelessness.Mayor Peduto has issued the honor to: - Jack Shea- Father Jack O' Malley- Alma Speed Fox- Bill Strickland- Al Condeluci- Mayor Tom Murphy- Leo GerardThe text of Mayor Peduto's proclamation naming today Dr. Jim Withers Day – which he announced at the International Street Medicine Institute Symposium – is below:WHEREAS, Dr. Jim Withers began a life of compassion by making house-calls with his father, a family practitioner in rural Pennsylvania; and,WHEREAS, Dr. Withers went on to earn his undergraduate degree at Haverford College and later completed his medical school training at the University of Pittsburgh in 1984; and,WHEREAS, Dr. Withers finished his training with a residency at Mercy Hospital of Pittsburgh and later joined the full-time faculty by teaching in the Department of Internal Medicine; andWHEREAS, Dr. Withers began to provide care for Pittsburgh’s neighbors in need in 1992 as the founding force behind Operation Safety Net. Now operated through the Pittsburgh Mercy Health System, it is dedicated to providing people who are homeless with critical medical services wherever they are; and,WHEREAS, Operation Safety Net has built relationships with, and provided care to over ten thousand people and is working to transition thousands more into safe homes; and,WHEREAS, Dr. Withers has established the International Street Medicine Institute, which is part of a global movement of giving people suffering from homelessness direct access to medical care. The program has been a remarkable success, launching programs on four continents; and,WHEREAS, each year, the organization gathers to focus on spreading medicine to people and communities in need and encouraging the next generation of medical professionals to focus on assisting our vulnerable neighbors; and,WHEREAS, Dr. Withers has been recognized across our city, nation, and world for his unflagging compassion and improving the lives of those with unmet needs. Notably, being named “Hero of the Year” by CNN in 2015.NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that I, William Peduto, Mayor of the City of Pittsburgh, do thank Dr. Jim Withers for his decades of dedication, sacrifice, and service to Pittsburgh and its vulnerable neighbors. Awarding him with our City’s highest civilian honor, the Key to the City. Furthermore, declaring Monday, October 21, 2019 as “Dr. Jim Withers Day” here in our most livable City of Pittsburgh. | 21/10/2019 15:06:06 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Monday, October 21, 2019 | Press Event For Future Of August Wilson HouseTime: 10:00 A.M.Location: Mayor's Conference Room, City-County Building International Street Medicine Institute ConferenceTime: 11:00 A.M.Location: August Wilson Center for African American Culture, Central Business DistrictMeeting With Brandi FisherTime: 12:00 P.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County Building2020 Capital Budget DiscussionTime: 2:00 P.M.Location: Mayor's Conference Room, City-County BuildingMeeting With Judge McVayTime: 3:30 P.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County Building | 21/10/2019 08:27:22 |
| Major Competitive Federal Grant Issued to August Wilson House | PITTSBURGH, PA (October 21, 2019) Duquesne University has received and will administer a federal Save America’s Treasures grant of $499,628 on behalf of the August Wilson House.The grant will support restoration efforts for the August Wilson House (AWH), the Pittsburgh playwright’s Hill District childhood home. The project will restore the building as a multi-disciplinary arts and education center.Save America’s Treasures is administered by the National Park Service, Department of the Interior, National Endowment for the Arts, National Endowment for the Humanities and Institute of Museum and Library Science. In total, 41 preservation sites and conservation projects in 23 states shared a total of $12.6 million. The maximum grant was for $500,000.The August Wilson House grant was one of 17 projects in the $400,000 to $500,000 range. Other grants at that level include the Smithsonian Institution for saving sound recordings from Alexander Graham Bell's Volta Laboratory; preservation of the Nantucket Lightship/LV-112 in Massachusetts; restoring Willa Cather's childhood home in Red Cloud, Nebraska; rehabilitation of the historic Fort Worden quartermasters office in Port Townsend, Washington; and restoration of the Marble House roof in Newport, R.I.“Save America’s Treasures helps preserve nationally significant historic properties and collections that convey our nation's rich heritage to future generations of Americans,” said U.S. Secretary of the Interior David Bernhardt.This competitive award required AWH to raise matching funds. AWH met and exceeded the challenge through the efforts of a private group of national arts and entertainment stars coordinated by Denzel Washington. In addition, AWH itself has received sizable grants over several years from the Heinz Endowments, Richard King Mellon Foundation, Hillman Family Foundations, The Pittsburgh Foundation, McAuley Ministries, and the Growth Opportunity Fund.“This is not just a national recognition of the importance of August Wilson House,” said its executive director Paul A. Ellis, Jr. “It honors and affects all of Pittsburgh, as well.”“Just as August Wilson preserved and celebrated African-American life through the decades, so will this grant help us advance his good works for generations to come,” Mayor William Peduto said.The AWH restoration project is now in final design stage, with construction to begin by the end of 2019. Organizers intend a grand opening on or before Wilson’s birthday, April 27, 2021. Funds raised will go beyond construction to support a wide range of artistic and educational programs involving local and visiting artists, educational tours of the house and the Hill, performances of many genres, seminars and reading roundtables, and arts for children.Two of AWH signature programs have already made their mark on the community. Started in 2016, the annual August Wilson Birthday Block Party has grown to attract more than 6,000 people. An annual outdoor production of an August Wilson play, in collaboration with Pittsburgh Playwrights Theatre, has included “Seven Guitars” and “King Hedly II,” both staged in the backyard where August played as a child, and “Gem of the Ocean,” just staged at 1839 Wylie Ave., the location specified in the play.In addition, in conjunction with long-time partner Duquesne University, AWH welcomed the first Duquesne University/August Wilson House Fellow, with former U.S. Poet Laureate Natasha Trethewey as the first honoree. Collaborative programs are promised soon with the University of Pittsburgh and its Center for African American Poetry and Poetics.“We are thrilled that our decade-long relationship with the August Wilson House has blossomed into this special grants assistance initiative that will enrich the Hill District and the entire greater Pittsburgh community,” says Duquesne University President Ken Gormley. “Duquesne is deeply committed to building community relationships that can benefit all concerned.  We take seriously our role as an anchor institution as we work together with our community partners to re-envision the region for a new era.”Contacts:Paul A. Ellis, Jr., AWH Executive Director: paul@augustwilsonhouse.orgChristopher Rawson, Chair Program Committee: 412-216-1944, cchr@pitt.eduGabriel Welsch, Vice President of Marketing and Communications, Duquesne University: 412-396-6052, welschg@duq.edu | 21/10/2019 11:20:48 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Tuesday, October 22, 2019 | Presenting Proclamation To City &amp; County Employees For Breast Cancer AwarenessTime: 10:00 A.M.Location: Mayor's Conference Room, City-County BuildingInterview With WPXI-TVTime: 11:00 A.M.Location: Office of the County Executive, Allegheny County CourthouseEnergy Innovation &amp; Carbon Dividend Act Press Event With Local Elected LeadersTime: 12:00 P.M.Location: Fifth Floor Elevator Lobby, City-County Building Welcoming Delegation From Pittsburgh's Sister City Saitama, JapanTime: 12:15 P.M.Location: Mayor's Conference Room, City-County BuildingMeeting With Allegheny County Executive Rich FitzgeraldTime: 2:00 P.M.Location: Mayor's Conference Room, City-County BuildingMeeting With Department Of Mobility &amp; Infrastructure Assistant Director Kim LucasTime: 3:30 P.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County BuildingWeekly Scheduling MeetingTime: 4:00 P.M.Location: Mayor's Conference Room, City-County BuildingPresenting Proclamation To United Methodist Church Union On Occasion Of 124th AnniversaryTime: 6:00 P.M.Location: Heinz Field, North Shore | 22/10/2019 08:54:36 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Wednesday, October 23, 2019 | Meeting With The Buncher Company's Thomas BalestieriTime: 10:30 A.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County BuildingTelephone Interview With The ForwardTime: 11:30 A.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County BuildingTelephone Interview CBS News' Bill RehkopfTime: 1:00 P.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County BuildingMeeting With Ken DoynoTime: 2:00 P.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County BuildingRibbon Cutting For The Home Court Advantage Project At McKinley Basketball CourtsTime: 4:30 P.M.Location: McKinley Park, Beltzhoover | 23/10/2019 08:36:12 |
| Media Advisory: Mayor Peduto and the Urban Redevelopment Authority To Cut Ribbon At New Beltzhoover Art Instillation | Media AdvisoryPITTSBURGH, PA (October 23, 2019) The Mayor will join the Urban Redevelopment Authority of Pittsburgh, key stakeholders, and members of the community for a ribbon-cutting ceremony for a new public art project installation at the Upper McKinley Park basketball court in Beltzhoover. WHO: Mayor William Peduto, Urban Redevelopment Authority of Pittsburgh Deputy Director Diamonte Walker, Pittsburgh Park Conservancy Director of Community Projects Heather Sage, Pittsburgh Park Conservancy Community Parks Manager Gavin White, Designer &amp; Artist Janel Young  WHAT: McKinley Park Art Installation Ribbon Cutting  WHERE: 900 Delmont Ave, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, 15210 WHEN: 4:30 p.m., Wednesday, October 23, 2019 | 23/10/2019 08:54:42 |
| Statement by Mayor William Peduto on Clean Energy and the Paris Climate Agreement | PITTSBURGH, PA (October 23, 2019) Mayor William Peduto issued the following statement today on President Donald Trump’s remarks about energy production and the Paris Climate Agreement:  “President Trump’s remarks on energy and the Paris Agreement today underscore why the 2020 election is so important, not only for the United States but for the world. The United States cannot officially withdraw from the Paris Agreement until November 2020, so final action will rightly be made by the next President. Pittsburgh adopted the Agreement in 2017, and is one of 400 American cities that has done so to fight the climate crisis. His statements about energy are wrong, and stuck in an outdated 19th Century mindset. The Pittsburgh region is thriving and has moved on to a 21st Century economy based on technology and clean energy production. President Trump’s outdated vision for Western Pennsylvania and the Rust Belt would put the final nails into the coffin of those struggling communities his economy has left behind. These are the facts: In Pennsylvania there are twice as many workers employed by the clean energy industry than by fossil fuel producers. There are more clean energy workers in Allegheny County than any other county in the state, including Philadelphia. The plans the City of Pittsburgh has adopted to cut carbon emissions in half are projected to add 110,000 full-time equivalent jobs by 2030. Pittsburgh has transitioned  to a technology-based economy, with its tech firms attracting almost $4 billion in investments the last 10 years – $2.3 billion of which has come in just the last five years, much of it focused on the autonomous vehicle and robotics sectors. Pittsburgh has willed itself into economic rebirth after its near death. It joins the world in valuing our future over reliving the past.” | 23/10/2019 16:50:34 |
| CitiParks Annual Track &amp; Treat Event | PITTSBURGH, PA (October 23, 2019)  Citiparks will be hosting its annual FREE Track and Treat Event at the Bud Harris Cycling Track on Washington Boulevard on Saturday, October 26, 2019, from Noon to 4:00 p.m.Citiparks Track and Treat is a FREE, fun and active seasonal event for children and families with a Halloween theme.  Children and families are welcome to wear their Halloween costumes, bring their own bikes or borrow one of ours!  Cycle around the Bud Harris Cycling Track-stopping along the way to learn bike etiquette, safety, and maintenance from the Pittsburgh Police Bicycle Unit and have fun decorating their bikes.  Children can play a host of Halloween and seasonal games and win prizes, enjoy Pittsburgh Puppet Works Halloween shows and the Dr. Sparks Science Show along with giant bubble making, balloons and face painting.  Generous donations include Eat n' Park Monster Mash Cookies and Bike PGH information and resources.  And children and families can enjoy life-size hand-painted seasonal decor including a haunted house facade, a barn and barnyard characters, Minion city, Pumpkin people and more.Games and activities include Guess How Many (Candy Corn), Pig Relay Race, Break a Balloon, Pick A Nose, Spider Corn Hole Toss, Plinko, Pumpkin Cone Toss, Pumpkin Bowling, Spin Wheel and Inflatable Games-along with Pumpkin Decorating and a Halloween Costume Contest at 2 pm.This event is coordinated by Citiparks’ Community Enrichment staff and Recreation Center Staff with help from:City of Pittsburgh Police Bicycle UnitCity of Pittsburgh, Police Motorcycle UnitCity of Pittsburgh, Fire BureauCitiparks TennisVenture OutdoorsFranktuaryEat n' ParkPittsburgh DJ CompanyElf EntertainmentPittsburgh Puppet WorksDr. Sparks Science ShowWymsy WykenKidsburghEQT Children's TheaterFace Paint PittsburghMike the Balloon GuyBike Pittsburgh | 23/10/2019 12:30:26 |
| New Public Art Project Installation At McKinley Park In Beltzhoover | PITTSBURGH, PA (October 23, 2019) The City of Pittsburgh, Office of Mayor William Peduto joined the Urban Redevelopment Authority of Pittsburgh, key stakeholders, and members of the community for a ribbon-cutting ceremony for the new public art project installation at the Upper McKinley Park basketball court in Beltzhoover. The project, called “Home Court Advantage,” was proposed by local artist Janel Young and was designed in consultation with input from the local community and youth from Voices Against Violence. The ribbon-cutting took place this afternoon at 4:30 p.m. at 900 Delmont Avenue, with an artist talk to follow at 7:00 p.m. "Investing in public arts brings vitality to city neighborhoods," said Mayor William Peduto. "I want to thank the URA for working with a local artist to create this new art installation in Beltzhoover.”    The URA’s Economic Development Department awarded the placemaking grant of $15,500 to the Beltzhoover Consensus Group for the installation of the public art and related activities. The work was completed over two weeks in September and included the participation of many local teens. See video."Economic development and community development go hand-in-hand, and these types of placemaking investments are key to the URA's mission,” URA Deputy Director Diamonte Walker said. “The work speaks for itself. Janel Young is not only an artistic talent but her ability to navigate the public sector really impressed our staff."  Young’s proposal went before the City’s Art Commission in May and was described in part this way:  “The artist pulled from her previous original works and experiences to develop 2 bold and exciting color palettes and an uplifting phrase for the court that embodies the expressed themes, “There is Victory in Unity.” The word “victory” being applicable to both the basketball court and everyday life.  This color palette was inspired by a previous piece entitled “Victorious.” The dripping design plays off of the community “waterhole” analogy mentioned in the feedback to the significance of this court. The red and yellow overlapping rectangles symbolize the continuous giving to one another, building bridges across peers and generations.  The checkered pattern in the paint section resembles that of a finish line flag, encouraging the community to support each other in getting things done and crossing the metaphorical finish line together.   Young, was born and raised on the South Side, attending Beltzhoover Elementary School, Rogers CAPA middle school and Schenley High School. Read more about the artist here. Although I’ve worked on other public murals, this project was especially important to me for a number of reasons, including the fact that I grew up playing on this basketball court many years ago. It feels incredible to give back to my community in this way and involve several generations of residents in the process. Another reason is that this is the first art court in Pittsburgh and I’m proud that my neighborhood has made history with this project. That’s our home court advantage,” said designer Janel Young.  Graphic: "Home Court Advantage" design by Janel Young/ JY Originals | 23/10/2019 17:29:21 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Thursday, October 24, 2019 | Launch Of the Center For Sustainable BusinessTime: 11:00 A.M.Location: The University Club - University of Pittsburgh, North OaklandTelephone Interview With The ForwardTime: 12:30 P.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County BuildingTelephone Interview CBS News' Bill RehkopfTime: 1:30 P.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County BuildingMeeting With Lucas PiattTime: 2:00 P.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County BuildingMeeting With The Rockefeller Foundation's Brett MonsTime: 3:30 P.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County BuildingCONNECT's Annual FundraiserTime: 5:30 P.M.Location: The Parkway Theater, McKees Rocks, Pennsylvania Marching In The 2019 Bloomfield Halloween ParadeTime: 7:30 P.M.Location: Liberty Avenue, Bloomfield | 24/10/2019 08:12:39 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Friday, October 25, 2019 | No public events scheduled | 25/10/2019 08:54:39 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Saturday and Sunday, October 26-27, 2019 | Saturday, October 26, 2019:Catholic Charities Love Walk and Interfaith ReflectionTime: NoonLocation: PNC Park, Federal and E. General Robinson Streets, North ShoreSunday, October 27, 2019:Community Service EventsTime: 11 a.m. - 1 p.m.Officer Calvin Hall DedicationTime: 2 p.m.Location: Northview Heights Public Safety Center, 441 Mt. Pleasant Road, Northview HeightsCommunity GatheringTime: 5 p.m.Location: Soldiers &amp; Sailors Memorial Hall, 4141 Fifth Avenue, Oakland | 26/10/2019 11:25:08 |
| Reminder: Fall Yard Waste Collection Day is Saturday, November 16, 2019 | PITTSBURGH, PA (November 12, 2019) Pittsburgh residents are encouraged to compost their leaves, grass, branches, and other yard debris on Saturday, November 16, 2019. Your participation in this program helps the environment by diverting valuable resources from the landfill.Yard waste must be left at the curb, following the simple guidelines below. Place trash/recycling at your pick up spot before 6:00 a.m. Yard debris must be in brown paper bags and not weigh more than 35 pounds. Branches must be bundled with fiber twine or natural rope in branch lengths of 5 feet or less. What is accepted?- leaves- branches (4-inch diameter or less)- brush- grassWhat is not accepted?- plastic bags- metal or wire- rocks, blocks, bricks- dirt or gravel- glass, metal or plasticWhat to do with that yard waste year round? The City of Pittsburgh has three drop-off centers that accepts yard debris. Call each center for details and hours:East End Drop-Off Center (2nd Division)6814 Hamilton Ave Pittsburgh, PA 15208412-665-3609Hazelwood Drop-Off Center (3rd Division)40 Melanchton St Pittsburgh, PA 15207412-422-6524 West End Drop-Off Center (5rd Division)1330 Hassler St Pittsburgh, PA 15220412-937-3054 | 28/10/2019 09:49:04 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Monday, October 28, 2019 | No public events scheduled | 28/10/2019 08:38:20 |
| List Street Reconstruction To Begin | PITTSBURGH, PA (October 29, 2019) The City of Pittsburgh Department of Mobility and Infrastructure (DOMI) is pleased to announce the commencement of construction of the List Street wall project following several months of extensive geotechnical analysis and engineering design. This $880,000 project in Spring Hill will correct an ongoing slope instability issue and restore unrestricted two-way traffic.List Street construction will begin on the street the week of November 4, 2019 and last approximately three months. List Street will be closed to all traffic during construction for a maximum period of seventy (70) days. A set of temporary steps have been constructed connecting Schnittgen and List Streets to Buente Street. Parking for residents of Schnittgen Street will be provided along Buente Street during the duration of the closure to provide residents a way of bypassing the slide area.List Street is one of several streets which have been affected by landslides over the last year as a result of record breaking wet weather. Several other large scale slide response projects will begin in the coming months including Semicir Street, William Street, Forward Avenue, and Greenleaf Street in addition to a number of smaller projects. In total, more than $8 million of local capital will be invested this year to protect and restore public rights of way.For questions, please contact the Department of Mobility and Infrastructure at domi@pittsburghpa.gov or 412-255-8850.  More information on the project and periodic updates can be found at https://pittsburghpa.gov/domi/current-projects. | 29/10/2019 09:33:37 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Tuesday, October 29, 2019 | Meeting With CitiParks Assistant Director Kathryn VargasTime: 11:00 A.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County BuildingMeeting With Mayor Moshe Koninsky Of Karmiel, IsraelTime: 12:00 P.M.Location: Mayor's Conference Room, City-CountyMeeting With WaterNow AllianceTime: 1:00 P.M.Location: Mayor's Conference Room, City-County BuildingLIFT Press ConferenceTime: 2:00 P.M.Location: 5013 Gertrude Street, HazelwoodBureau Of Emergency Medical Services Promotion CeremonyTime: 3:00 P.M.Location: Council Chamber, City-County BuildingMeeting With Director Of Permits, Licences, &amp;Inspections Maura KennedyTime: 4:00 P.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County Building | 29/10/2019 08:23:51 |
| American Heart Association Recognizes City For Workplace Health Achievement | PITTSBURGH, PA (October 29, 2019) The results of the American Heart Association 2019 Workplace Health Achievement Index were announced today and the City of Pittsburgh achieved Bronze recognition for taking significant steps to build a culture of health in the workplace. The City utilizes an in-house wellness reward program called CityFit. This incentive based program focuses on four dimensions of wellness: body, mind, spirit, and heart. This program is inclusive to all City insured employees and their dependents.The American Heart Association created the Index with its CEO Roundtable, a leadership collaborative of more than 40 CEOs from some of America’s largest companies who are committed to applying evidence-based approaches to improve their employees’ overall health. The Index uses science-based best practices to evaluate the overall quality and comprehensiveness of their workplace health programs. Studies show that worksites with a culture of health with comprehensive, evidence-based policies and programs, and senior leadership support are more likely to have engaged employees and a healthier, more productive workforce.A unique feature of the Index is that it calculates an average heart health score for employees of participating companies that securely submit aggregate health data. Companies receive benchmarking reports, which allow them to identify potential areas of improvement so that they can advance their annual performance and recognition.“The City of Pittsburgh is committed to the health and well-being of their employees and families. We understand the impact and energy it takes to serve our City so we want to ensure that our employees have the resources to live their best, healthy life.”–CityFit Wellness and Benefits TeamAs part of its commitment to healthier workplaces, the American Heart Association offers Health Screening Services, an onsite biometric screening solution which allows organizations to collect and submit employee health data seamlessly. The health screenings are combined with a health assessment and education to motivate participants to make behavior changes or seek support for lifestyle changes and follow-up medical care as appropriate.The American Heart Association’s Workplace Health Solutions offers a suite of evidence-based tools to help optimize current employee health programs. These tools leverage the science behind the Index while improving consumer engagement and promoting healthier behaviors. For more information, visit www.heart.org/workplacehealth.###About the American Heart AssociationThe American Heart Association is a relentless force for a world of longer, healthier lives. We are dedicated to ensuring equitable health in all communities. Through collaboration with numerous organizations, and powered by millions of volunteers, we fund innovative research, advocate for the public’s health and share lifesaving resources. The Dallas-based organization has been a leading source of health information for nearly a century. Connect with us on heart.org, Facebook, Twitter or by calling 1-800-AHA-USA1.For Media Inquiries:Janet K. Manuel, MS, SHRM-CP, PHRDirector, Human Resources &amp; Civil Service and EEO/Diversity &amp; Inclusion OfficerPhone: 412-255- 8889Email: Janet.manuel@pittsburghpa.gov | 29/10/2019 12:52:12 |
| 10th Street Sinkhole Update | PITTSBURGH, PA (October 29, 2019) The City of Pittsburgh Department of Mobility and Infrastructure – working with partner agencies and utilities – has determined that 10th Street between Penn and Liberty avenues Downtown will remain closed an estimated eight weeks after a sinkhole occurred there early Monday morning. Penn Avenue reopened early today following the removal of a Port Authority bus from the sinkhole. Liberty Avenue is also open. Traffic continues to be impacted around the area however, and a small portion of the Penn Avenue bike lane is closed, forcing bicyclists to use the traffic lane. Today a contractor is removing concrete and debris from the hole, and will then utilities will work on securing the fiber infrastructure at the site. Once that work is completed the Pittsburgh Water &amp; Sewer Authority will assess any damage to water, sewer and storm lines at the site and make any repairs needed. There are a host of utilities impacted by the sinkhole, which complicates the restoration effort. In addition to PWSA there is also below-ground infrastructure at the site by Duquesne Light, Verizon, Peoples Gas, and PAC Thermal (PACT).  The street cannot be restored until all utility repairs are complete. Once those repairs are done, the sinkhole will be filled up to the subgrade level and a new concrete street will be poured. Sidewalks and curbs in the affected area will also be restored. All of those repairs will take an estimated eight weeks to complete. Businesses in the area may experience intermittent outages of water or utility service as repairs are made. Entry to the Westin Pittsburgh Hotel is being accommodated from Liberty Avenue at 10th Street. Further updates will be issued as necessary. | 29/10/2019 13:27:59 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Wednesday, October 30, 2019 | Speaking At Heinz Endowments Climate Change ConferenceTime: 9:45 A.M.Location: David L. Lawrence Convention Center, Central Business DistrictPresenting Mayor Sophie Masloff Employee Of The Month AwardTime: 11:30 A.M.Location: Mayor's Conference Room, City-County BuildingMeeting With Director Of Public Safety Wendell Hissrich &amp; Chief Of Police Scott SchubertTime: 2:00 P.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County BuildingWeekly Scheduling MeetingTime: 3:30 P.M.Location: Mayor's Conference Room, City-County BuildingDepartment Of City Planning Oakland Plan Steering Committee MeetingTime: 5:00 P.M.Location: Oakland Career Center, Central Oakland | 30/10/2019 08:29:11 |
| Agreement Reached on North Shore Development | PITTSBURGH, PA (October 30, 2019) Mayor William Peduto, the Stadium Authority of the City of Pittsburgh, the Pirates, the Steelers and Continental Real Estate Companies today reached a comprehensive agreement on a development plan for the remaining parcels on the North Shore between PNC Park and Heinz Field.The plan includes the first residential development in the area between PNC Park and Heinz Field, new greenspace, and a new privately-constructed parking garage.“Bringing housing to the North Shore has long been one of my goals, along with introducing new, fan-friendly and public greenspaces to the area. I want to thank the Pirates and Steelers for their hard work with us on this,” Mayor Peduto said.The Stadium Authority board will vote today on an amendment to its option agreement with the Pirates and Steelers on three initiatives to redevelop Lot 4, located on the southwest corner of Mazeroski Way and General Robinson Street. The redevelopment will include:- An 8-story high-rise building with four floors of approximately 48 residential units, and four floors of retail and office space- A privately constructed 445-space, six-floor public parking garage, with approximately 72 spaces reserved for building residents- A public courtyard and greenspace with retail and entertainment components“This is a great day for our fans, our city and the continued success of the revitalization of the North Shore. We are extremely thankful for Mayor Peduto’s leadership, the hard work of everyone at the Stadium Authority and for all our partners in sharing in this vision and making it possible,” Bob Nutting, Pirates Chairman of the Board, said. “In addition to the needed residential units and parking, the new public green space will give our fans a great area for gathering and entertainment on-game days, as well as enhance the entertainment options available to visitors year-round.”The Stadium Authority board will also vote to extend the redevelopment deadline for Lot 2 on the North Shore to December 31, 2024. The agreement also creates a final partnership agreement on surface parking spots for gameday activities through the end of the stadium leases.“This project, which will bring quality housing to the North Shore, along with new retail, entertainment, office space and a fan friendly mall experience, will be the capstone of our North Shore development,” said Stanley Lederman, Chairman of the Stadium Authority board.“We look forward to continuing development on the North Shore while also accommodating parking and access for fans attending events at Heinz Field,” said James V.  Sacco, VP of Stadium Operations and Management at Heinz Field.Continental has led the development of the area between PNC Park and Heinz Field, which has revitalized and transformed the entire North Shore. After the completion of this phase of the project, the development will now consist of approximately 600,000 square feet of office space, more than 125,000 square feet of retail space across 15 different restaurants, 60,000 square feet of residential space, and more than 20,000 feet of public plaza and greenspace. The development also includes Stage AE, a premier indoor/outdoor concert venue, and the Hyatt Place Hotel. | 30/10/2019 12:57:18 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Thursday, October 31, 2019 | Welcoming Delegation From Chinese Ministry Of Foreign AffairsTime: 9:45 A.M.Location: Mayor's Conference Room, City-County BuildingANSYS Hall OpeningTime: 10:30 A.M.Location: ANSYS Hall - Carnegie Mellon University, Squirrel Hill North2020 Operating Budget DiscussionTime: 11:30 A.M.Location: Mayor's Conference Room, City-County BuildingSpeaking At American College Of Business Court JudgesTime: 1:00 P.M.Location: Omni William Penn Hotel, Central Business DistrictOne Grandview MeetingTime: 3:00 P.M.Location: The LeMont, Mount Washington | 31/10/2019 08:59:55 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Friday, November 1, 2019 | Strong Cities Network Telephone InterviewTime: 11:00 A.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County BuildingMeeting With Pastor Michael DayTime: 12:30 P.M.Location: Legacy International Worship Center, Perry South2020 Budget Meeting With Councilperson Erika StrassburgerTime: 1:15 P.M.Location: Mayor's Conference Room, City-County BuildingMeeting With Boris BrindarTime: 2:00 P.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County BuildingMeeting With Joe BartolacciTime: 3:00 P.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County BuildingDay Of Memories CelebrationTime: 6:00 P.M.Location: House of Manna, Homewood South | 1/11/2019 08:03:56 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Monday, November 4, 2019 | Speaking At EcoDistricts SummitTime: 9:00 A.M.Location: August Wilson Center for African American Culture, Central Business DistrictMeeting With Hillary RomanTime: 11:00 A.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County BuildingMeeting With Pittsburgh Shade Tree CommissionTime: 12:00 P.M.Location: Mayor's Conference Room, City-County BuildingMeeting With P.J. LavelleTime: 2:00 P.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County BuildingTelephone Call With Jonathan GreenblattTime: 3:30 P.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County Building | 4/11/2019 08:18:59 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Tuesday, November 5, 2019 | Meeting With Tim McNultyTime: 11:30 A.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County BuildingInterview With Nicole JavorskyTime: 12:30 P.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County BuildingInterview On "The Pitchwerks Podcast"Time: 1:30 P.M.Location: Work Hard Pittsburgh, AllentownSpeaking At Tree Of Life ConferenceTime: 3:15 P.M.Location: Rodef Shalom Synagogue, ShadysideThe Pittsburgh Project's Servant Leader Celebration: Roast Of Scott LammieTime: 6:30 P.M.Location: The Fairmont Hotel, Central Business District | 5/11/2019 08:33:03 |
| City Receives Recognition from National EcoDistricts Nonprofit for Neighborhood Planning Efforts | PITTSBURGH, PA (November 5, 2019) The Department of City Planning is honored to announce that it has received a Citymakers Award from EcoDistricts, a Portland-based nonprofit building a model for vibrant, thriving places where all can work and live.During the EcoDistrict Summit Block Party on Monday evening, the Department of City Planning was presented with an award for its commitment to embracing the EcoDistrict Protocol as a framework for change. The EcoDistrict model is built on three imperatives: equity, resilience and climate protection.“From resiliency to green building, Pittsburgh has been leading the effort to embrace a comprehensive approach to sustainability,” said EcoDistricts CEO, Rob Bennett, in an award announcement.The first of the City of Pittsburgh’s plans to follow the EcoDistrict model was the EcoInnovation District for the Uptown area, which sets goals to help transform the community while improving the environment, supporting residents, and expanding entrepreneurship and job growth in the district.The EcoInnovation District plan has also received an award from the Pennsylvania Chapter of the American Planning Association for its focus on social equity, reusing underutilized spaces, creating an open space network, and public participation.In addition to the EcoInnovation District, the Department of City Planning has developed the Neighborhood Plan Guide, released on Monday, November 4, which merges the EcoDistrict model with the City of Pittsburgh’s goals to outline a framework for future neighborhood plan creation. The Guide is available at pittsburghpa.gov/dcp/np.“One of our goals with the Guide was to intentionally connect the bottom-up, holistic sustainability strategies in the EcoDistrict protocol with citywide work on sustainability, resilience and equity,” said Andrew Dash, Acting Director of City Planning. “Neighborhood plans created using our Guide will be part of the citywide conversation on these topics and also a nationwide community of EcoDistricts. We believe it is a big benefit for everyone.”For More Information:Derek DauphinProject Manager, Senior Plannerderek.dauphin@pittsburghpa.govStephanie Joy EverettProject Manager, Senior Plannerstephaniejoy.everett@pittsburghpa.govAndrew DashActing Director, Department of City Planningandrew.dash@pittsburghpa.gov | 5/11/2019 13:01:53 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Wednesday, November 6, 2019 | 2019 Light Up Night Press Conference With Pittsburgh Downtown PartnershipTime: 10:00 A.M.Location: Senator John Heinz History Center, Strip District Meeting With City Solicitor Yvonne HiltonTime: 11:30 A.M.Location: Mayor's Conference Room, City-County BuildingMeeting With Director Of Communications Tim McNultyTime: 12:30 P.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County BuildingTelephone Call With Jim WolfTime: 1:00 P.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County BuildingWeekly Meeting With Director Of Public Safety Wendell Hissrich &amp; Chief Of Police Scott SchubertTime: 2:00 P.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County BuildingInterview With Public Source's Oliver MorrisonTime: 3:30 P.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County BuildingWeekly Scheduling MeetingTime: 4:00 P.M.Location: Mayor's Conference Room, City-County Building | 6/11/2019 09:00:35 |
| Greater Hazelwood Neighborhood Plan Adopted by Planning Commission | PITTSBURGH, PA (November 6, 2019) – On Tuesday, November 5, the City of Pittsburgh Planning Commission unanimously adopted the Greater Hazelwood Neighborhood Plan.The Greater Hazelwood Neighborhood Plan is a collective effort of the Greater Hazelwood Community Collaborative and the Department of City Planning, along with residents and stakeholders. Based on a robust input process, the plan takes community input and outlines ways to strengthen and improve the community while preparing for future growth and change. The plan’s objective is to develop without displacement. The plan is available for viewing at https://pittsburghpa.gov/dcp/ghnp.As the neighborhood continues to evolve, the community will use this plan to ensure it remains an inclusive, family-friendly neighborhood that recognizes its’ greatest asset is its’ people.“When we think of development in Hazelwood, we don’t think about bricks and mortar first. We think of the people first,” said Tim Smith, president of the Greater Hazelwood Community Collaborative. “Families, children, youth and senior citizens are the lifeblood of every community.”The planning process included three public open houses and many public meetings hosted by a network of Action Teams. The Steering Committee received input through community surveys, workshops and interviews with residents.“The Greater Hazelwood community came together to share their visions for the neighborhood and how those visions could be achieved,” said Ose Akinlotan, project manager. “Over the past two years we have used those comments to create a plan for development with displacement that will help to improve the community.”  For More Information:Ose AkinlotanProject Manager, Neighborhood Plannerose.akinlotan@pittsburghpa.govAndrew DashActing Director, Department of City Planningandrew.dash@pittsburghpa.gov | 6/11/2019 13:02:36 |
| City of Pittsburgh Offices Closed Monday in Observance of Veterans Day | Downtown streets to close Saturday morning for Veterans Day ParadePITTSBURGH, PA (November 6, 2019) All-City of Pittsburgh offices and facilities will be closed on Monday, November 11, in observance of Veterans Day.  However, there will be regularly scheduled refuse, bulk waste, and recycling collection, on Monday. Should residents have questions regarding collection, they may contact Environmental Services at 412-255-2773.  CitiParks Facilities will have the following Veteran’s Day hours: HEALTHY ACTIVE LIVING CENTERS (Senior Centers)- Closed Veterans Day—Monday, November 11, 2019   RECREATION CENTERS- Closed Saturday, November 9, 2019   - Closed Sunday, November 10, 2019   - Closed Monday, November 11, 2019—Veterans Day   MELLON TENNIS BUBBLE- Open Veterans Day    OLIVER BATHHOUSE- Closed Veterans Day   Veteran’s Day Parade Road Closure:Liberty Avenue in Downtown and the Strip District – and its intersections – will begin closing Saturday morning, November 9, in advance of the 2019 Veterans Day Parade. The parade starts at 10:30 a.m.  The parade will form on Liberty Avenue between 10th and 26th Streets, and on 11th Street. The route will proceed on Liberty Avenue to Commonwealth Place, where the parade ends. | 6/11/2019 13:41:22 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Thursday, November 7, 2019 | Telephone Interview With The Pittsburgh Post-Gazette's Julian RouthTime: 11:00 A.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County BuildingTraffic21 Institute's 10th Anniversary CelebrationTime: 12:00 P.M.Location: Rangos Ballroom - Carnegie Mellon University, Squirrel Hill NorthMeeting With Acting Director Of City Planning Andrew DashTime: 1:00 P.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County BuildingTour Of Cuando El Rio ExhibitionTime: 2:30 P.M.Location: Pittsburgh Glass Center, FriendshipPassport Academy School Ribbon CuttingTime: 4:00 P.M.Location: 933 Penn Avenue, Central Business DistrictPA Solar Center EventTime: 4:30 P.M.Location: Energy Innovation Center - Clifford B. Connelley Trade School, Crawford-RobertsHuman Engineering Research Lab &amp; Paralyzed Victims Of America 25th Anniversary DinnerTime: 6:00 P.M.Location: Bakery Square, LarimerPhipps Conservatory &amp; Botanical Gardens Fall GalaTime: 7:00 P.M.Location: Phipps Conservatory &amp; Botanical Gardens, Schenley Park | 7/11/2019 10:22:25 |
| Residents Asked for Input on Community Development Needs at Upcoming Hearings | PITTSBURGH, PA (November 7, 2019) The City of Pittsburgh’s Office of Management and Budget (OMB), Community Development Division announced a series of upcoming public hearings to seek input from residents about the community development needs ahead of the City’s annual and 5-year spending plan application for federal funds from the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD).The HUD programs for which the City is seeking Fiscal Year 2020 funding are Community Development Block Grant (CDBG), Home Investment Partnerships (HOME), Emergency Solutions Grants (ESG), and Housing Opportunities for Persons With AIDS (HOPWA). The City would like input from residents and organizations on the community development and fair housing needs in their neighborhoods that may be addressed by funding from these programs.Five identical public hearings will be held at locations throughout Pittsburgh to that interested residents and organizations can attend the public hearing most convenient to them. The schedule of public hearings is as follows:- Tuesday, November 12th at 6:00 p.m.: Community College of Allegheny County’s Foerster Student Services Center Auditorium and Lobby, 800 Ridge Avenue Pittsburgh, PA, 15212- Wednesday, November 13th at 6:00 p.m.: Sheraden Senior Center, 720 Sherwood Avenue Pittsburgh, PA 152104- Thursday, November 14th at 6:00 p.m.: John P. Robin Civic Center, First Floor Conference Room, 200 Ross Street Pittsburgh, PA 15219 (this event will be live-streamed on the Office of Community Affairs, City of Pittsburgh’s Facebook page on which online questions and testimony will be accepted during the event)- Tuesday, November 19th at 6:00 p.m.: Kinsgley Association Community Room, 6435 Frankstown Avenue Pittsburgh, PA 15206- Wednesday, November 20th at 6:00 p.m.: Carnegie Library of Pittsburgh-Carrick Meeting Room, 1811 Brownsville Road Pittsburgh, PA 15210All locations are accessible to attendees with disabilities. Persons requiring special accommodations or interpretive services can call the OMB Community Development Division at 412-255-0740 or email community.development@pittsburghpa.gov three or more days ahead of the public hearing if they wish to attend. The fax number is 412-393-0151, and the TDD number is 711.Free child care (for children over age 2) is available by registering ahead of time at https://pittsburghpa.gov/omb/omb-public-notices. Food will be provided at each of the meetings.If residents and organizations cannot attend one of the public hearings and wish to submit feedback, an online survey is available at www.surveymonkey.com/r/Pittsburgh2020ConPlan. | 7/11/2019 10:26:55 |
| PGH Lab Program for Local Startups Announces Fifth Cohort | PITTSBURGH, PA (November 7, 2019) Mayor William Peduto, the City of Pittsburgh Department of Innovation &amp; Performance, the Urban Redevelopment Authority of Pittsburgh, the Housing Authority of the City of Pittsburgh, and Allegheny County Airport Authority today announced the fifth cohort of the PGH Lab program.PGH Lab connects local startup companies with the City of Pittsburgh and local authorities, and independent institutions to explore new ways to use technology and innovative solutions to help improve city operations. The program provides an opportunity for local startups to test their beta-stage products and services in a real-world environment for three-four months.The City of Pittsburgh and the participating authorities have successfully completed four cycles and engaged 21 local startups, putting forth a variety of technological and innovative solutions ranging from waste management and composting to business processes and automation to  immigrant inclusion initiatives.For the fifth cycle, three different startups will be joining PGH Lab. Through a competitive process the startups were chosen to test their solutions with the City of Pittsburgh and the Housing Authority of the City of Pittsburgh. To ensure the startups gain real time feedback on their products and services, they have been matched with a “City Champion,” a government employee that will work with the startups through the duration of the pilot project. The solutions involved in this cycle focus on the use of data to improve city operations.“We look forward to participating in PGH Lab 5.0., we're particularly excited to have an opportunity to develop innovative solutions to ongoing challenges and to create a product that will help connect our immigrant residents with useful services and products,” said Caster Binion, Executive Director of the Housing Authority of the City of Pittsburgh. “We’re looking forward to designing a data visualization tool that supports public engagement around questions concerning equitable housing access. At beamdata, we believe making data easily accessible and transparent is key to fueling people-powered movements and bottom-up innovation.” said Bhavini Patel, CEO &amp; co-founder of Beamdata.The City of Pittsburgh and participating authorities welcome the fifth cohort of startups that will utilize Pittsburgh as their urban lab: Allvision IO is a geospatial analytics company comprised of a team of LiDAR, machine learning and photogrammetry veterans with strong ties into the world of autonomous vehicles. Allvision IO turns 3D data into digital twins of everything visible from the sidewalk, road, or rail.  The company facilitates assets inventories, vegetation management, as well as detecting infrastructure changes faster and more economically. After their data collection process,  useable data is then made accessible on the cloud, allowing experts and non-experts alike to work with harvested insights from any location. Allvision IO will be working with the department of Innovation &amp; Performance on a street lights inventory.Beamdata is a civic tech company that operates at the intersection of social issues and data. The team works with local governments and nonprofits to tackle community-level problems by building data tools that guide equitable impact and decision-making. The company will pilot a data visualization tool that improves information transparency and citizen engagement with the Housing Authority of the City of Pittsburgh.Bestie is a social recommendation platform that takes a new, profile-centric approach to sharing useful products, professionals, and places with others. The Bestie platform allows individuals to discover recommendations from friends or curate guides to share their expertise with the community. Bestie will be partnering with the Housing Authority to create guides of useful resources for residential communities.The startup companies will be pilot testing with the City of Pittsburgh and the Housing Authority of the City of Pittsburgh for the next three months.For news and updates, visit the PGH Lab website, follow PGH Lab on Twitter at @PGH_Lab or the Innovation &amp; Performance Medium.Contact: Annia Aleman – PGH Lab Program Manager at annia.aleman@pittsburghpa.gov | 7/11/2019 10:01:39 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Friday, November 8, 2019 | Telephone Interview With Nicole Javorsky of The HillTime: 11:00 A.M.Visit To Manchester Academic Charter SchoolTime: 1:30 P.M.Location: Liverpool Street, ManchesterPresenting One Year Anniversary Proclamation To URA Grantee "Gallery On Penn"Time: 6:00 P.M.Location: Gallery on Penn - 5935 Penn Avenue, East Liberty | 8/11/2019 09:02:51 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Monday, November 11, 2019 | Veterans DayNo public events scheduled | 11/11/2019 11:26:09 |
| Media Advisory: Mayor Peduto to Deliver 2020 City Budget Address | PITTSBURGH, PA (November 11, 2019) Tuesday morning Mayor William Peduto will deliver his annual budget address to Pittsburgh City Council, and release the administration's 2020 Operating and Capital Budgets.WHERE: City Council Chamber, 5th Floor, City-County BuildingWHEN: 10 a.m., Tuesday, November 12, 2019 | 11/11/2019 14:27:00 |
| New Traffic Calming Projects Beginning This Week | PITTSBURGH, PA (November 11, 2019) The City of Pittsburgh Department of Mobility and Infrastructure is pleased to announce the installation of speed humps on four streets in the City of Pittsburgh during the week of November 11, 2019 as part of the Neighborhood Traffic Calming Program. These streets were prioritized for interventions based on 2018 speed and volume data collected on streets throughout the City. After completion of the projects, the Department will collect data to determine if project objectives have been accomplished.The projects will include the streets listed below:- Webster Avenue from Orion Street to Lisbon Street in the Hill District neighborhood. Due to narrow lane widths, vehicles will be detoured to Herron Avenue. Residents who live on the closed portion of Webster Avenue, emergency response vehicles, and bicyclists will be permitted to use Webster Avenue.- Beechwood Boulevard from South Dallas Avenue to Forest Glen Road in the Squirrel Hill South Neighborhood. Alternating two-way traffic will be maintained during construction.- Heberton Avenue from Wellesley Avenue to Stanton Avenue in the Highland Park neighborhood. Alternating two-way traffic will be maintained during construction.- Spokane Street from Parkfield Street to Sinton Avenue in the Carrick neighborhood. Due to narrow lane widths, vehicles will be detoured to Brownsville Road or Lucina Avenue. Residents who live on the closed portion of Spokane Street, emergency response vehicles, and bicyclists will be permitted to use Spokane Avenue.Permanent signage and pavement markings will be installed to alert motorists of approaching speeds humps. Due to weather, permanent markings may lag behind installation of the humps; residents should be alert for temporary traffic control including temporary signage and traffic cones until the projects are completeWork is tentatively expected to begin on November 11, 2019, and is expected to last one to two days on each street, weather permitting. Hours of construction will be Monday through Friday, 7:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. Temporary No Parking signs will be posted in advance of work, and will be removed when work is complete.We understand this may be a short-term inconvenience and we hope to work together with you in a professional and amicable manner for the long-term improvement of your neighborhood.If you have questions about this project or other traffic calming projects, you may contact us by email at trafficcalming@pittsburghpa.gov, or by calling 3-1-1. You can learn more about DOMI’s Neighborhood Traffic Calming Program at www.pittsburghpa.gov/domi/traffic-calming. | 11/11/2019 11:34:16 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Tuesday, November 12, 2019 | State Of The City: The Mayor's Budget AddressTime: 10:00 A.M.Location: The Council Chamber, City-County BuildingMeeting With Dr. Barry KerzinTime: 2:00 P.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County BuildingStrong Women Strong Girls Visit To Phillips Elementary SchoolTime: 3:30 P.M.Location: Phillips Elementary School, South Side FlatsChatham University 150th Anniversary CelebrationTime: 5:00 P.M.Location: The Duquesne Club, Central Business DistrictAmerican Factory Film Screening &amp; Community ConversationTime: 7:30 P.M.Location: Superior Motors, Braddock, Pennsylvania | 12/11/2019 08:44:45 |
| Mayor William Peduto Submits 2020 Budgets to Pittsburgh City Council | PITTSBURGH, PA (November 12, 2019) Mayor William Peduto submitted his 2020 Operating and Capital Budgets to Pittsburgh City Council today. They contained no tax increases, continued his administration’s commitments to long-term financial stability, and contained more than $600 million in investments in facilities and other infrastructure needs over the next several years. The proposed $608 million Operating Budget “continues my commitment to developing a long-term financial sustainability plan, strengthens financial management practices, and improves the efficiency and effectiveness of government operations for the benefit of city residents and employees,” Mayor Peduto said in a letter to Council issued today. The budgets allocate an additional $240 million to the pension fund beyond the state Mandated Minimum Municipal Obligation (MMO), continue to add $2.5 million in annual contributions to Other Post-Employment Benefits (OPEB) Trust Fund, and contain a $14.6 million Pay As You Go (PAYGO) transfer from operating budget funds to the capital budget. The budgets continue Mayor Peduto’s commitment to record levels of street resurfacing projects, with $16.9 million committed to paving next year. The budgets allocate funding for additional Police and Firefighter recruit classes, include plans for the creation of three Police substations in the Downtown, Homewood, and Southside districts, equip Pittsburgh Bureau of Police officers with new state of the art body cameras, and invest in new heart monitors and AEDs city-wide. The budgets include a new Clean and Lien team in each Department of Public Works division, and a new Office of Business Diversity. The 2020-2025 Capital Improvement Plan includes $600 million in investment in capital projects over the next six years. That includes $108 million for capital projects next year. The Capital Budget allocates $5.9 million to the vehicle acquisition plan that includes the purchase of 32 Police Hybrid Vehicles, over $6 million for Complete Streets projects to increase safety and utility for all road users, and over $6 million for public safety facility upgrades that include a multi-year process that will move the Zone 5 Police Station from Washington Blvd. back into the East Liberty community.  Council is scheduled to begin budget hearings Wednesday, November 20, and take its final vote on the budgets Tuesday, December 17. Today’s release of the Mayor’s 2020 budgets follows the release of preliminary 2020 budgets on October 1. A copy of the proposed 2020 Operating Budget is available here and the 2020 Capital Budget is available here.This year the Office of Management and Budget is also releasing a short, easy to read version of the Operating and Capital Budgets called the “2020 Mayor’s Budget in Brief.” It is available here. | 12/11/2019 10:25:10 |
| City Thanks Senators Costa and Fontana for Transportation Funding | PITTSBURGH, PA (November 13, 2019) Mayor William Peduto today thanked state Senators Jay Costa and Wayne Fontana for procuring more than $2 million in state funding for transportation projects around Pittsburgh. “I want to thank the Senators for securing these grants, which will bring much needed investments in mobility options for projects around Pittsburgh,” Mayor Peduto said. “We have aging infrastructure in our region and across the Commonwealth; it’s important that we at the state level recognize the challenges local government faces in funding these projects,” said Senator Costa. “We review many applications for transportation grants, and I’m excited by what I believe will come of the awards we are making today. I was proud to advocate on their behalf, and anxious to see them unfold.” The Senators announced Multimodal Transportation Fund grants around the city including:  - $700,000 to the City of Pittsburgh for sidewalks on Grandview Avenue in Mount Washington - $200,000 to Bridgeway Capitol for the Susquehanna Street Corridor in Homewood  - $500,000 to the Mosites Company for the Emerson Walk in the East Side as part of the Hunt Armory project - $300,000 to Carnegie Mellon University for streetscape improvements along the Forbes Avenue Corridor - $500 000 to the City of Pittsburgh for the South 21st Complete Green Street Project Since August the City has been making improvements to elevated sidewalks, railings and traffic calming measures along Grandview Avenue, marking the first major investments in the much-visited area in 30 years. “I was pleased to support this crucial investment that will enhance access and improve safety throughout this vital part of our community, ” Senator Fontana said. “I will continue to seek state support for local efforts to make Mt. Washington and our entire region a better place to live and work.” City Councilwoman Theresa Kail-Smith thanked the Senator for the funding, saying "Mount Washington and Duquesne Heights residents have been waiting a long time for these improvements, and their patience is finally being rewarded. One of the greatest views in the entire United States is finally getting the infrastructure support it deserves." | 13/11/2019 15:50:42 |
| Media Advisory: Mayor Peduto to Make Announcement Thursday on URA Leadership | PITTSBURGH, PA (November 13, 2019) Mayor William Peduto and Urban Redevelopment Authority Chair Sam Williamson will hold a press conference Thursday morning to make an announcment about URA leadership.WHAT: Press conference on URA LeadershipWHERE: Mayor's Conference Room, 5th Floor, City-County BuildingWHEN: 9:30 a.m., Thursday, November 14, 2019 | 13/11/2019 16:03:11 |
| URA to Acquire Hill District Grocery and Support New Park at Hospital Site in Brighton Heights | PITTSBURGH, PA (November 13, 2019) The board of the Urban Redevelopment Authority is poised tomorrow to acquire a vacant grocery store complex in the Hill District, and forward plans for a park at the former St. John’s Hospital site in Brighton Heights.  The URA plans to acquire a vacant, 2.57 acre shopping center at 1850 Centre Avenue in the Hill, which includes a vacant 29,500 square foot grocery store and four vacant retail suites that total 6,910 square feet.   No plans are yet set for the shopping center property, though the URA plans to acquire it for the long-term good of the Hill District community. The site enjoys good visibility and access from Centre Avenue, adequate parking, and service by Port Authority Transit (PAT) at several bus stops nearby.   The URA plans to acquire Dollar Bank’s $1.6 million interest in the loan documents for the site, then close on the purchase of the property. Although outstanding County, City and Public School liens exist on the site, the URA plans to negotiate with the three taxing bodies to settle the obligations.  In Brighton Heights, the URA plans to enter negotiations with the Allegheny Land Trust (ALT) to take over the former St. John’s Hospital site on McClure Avenue and create a passive and active greenspace at the property including significant green infrastructure elements. The green infrastructure for stormwater management is being funded by the Pittsburgh Water &amp; Sewer Authority, and the ALT will act as steward for the green infrastructure as well as the passive and active park planning.  The approximately 3.6-acre site is presently a vacant, semi-wooded lot. The URA issued a Request for Proposals for housing development of the site in June 2014, but garnered no response, likely because the steeply sloped site is not economically feasible for residential development.   The challenging topography requires significant site work and infrastructure and the neighborhood market cannot support higher sales prices that the budget requires. Through an engaged community process, the Brighton Heights Citizens Federation endorsed a permanent green plan put forth by the ALT.  PWSA contracted with Ethos Collaborative to create a preliminary design for stormwater management as the foundation for a slightly cultivated green space. Ethos Collaborative is a collective of integrative designers, scientists, and educators based in Pittsburgh whose specialty is creating green infrastructure design and ecological engineering services. PWSA approved the stormwater infrastructure design, and ALT is applying for funding to allow Ethos to flesh out plans for the green space above. ALT’s goal is to integrate active and passive recreation to the site as an amenity for the Brighton Heights neighborhood. The regular November meeting of the URA board is tomorrow at 2 p.m. on the 13th floor of the John P. Robin Civic Building at 200 Ross Street Downtown. | 13/11/2019 11:15:49 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Wednesday, November 13, 2019 | North Side Community Development Fund MeetingTime: 12:00 P.M.Location: PNC Park, North ShoreWeekly Meeting With Director Of Public Safety Wendell Hissrich &amp; Chief Of Police Scott SchubertTime: 2:00 P.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County BuildingInterview With Office Of Chattanooga Mayor Andy BerkeTime: 3:00 P.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County BuildingSparkPittsburgh Step Challenge CeremonyTime: 4:00 P.M.Location: Council Chamber, City-County BuildingOpening Of Eighth &amp; Penn ApartmentsTime: 5:00 P.M.Location: Penn Avenue, Central Business DistrictSalvation Army Annual DinnerTime: 6:00 P.M.Location: Heinz Field, North Shore | 13/11/2019 10:26:57 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Thursday, November 14, 2019 | Press Conference With Urban Redevelopment Authority Of PittsburghTime: 9:30 A.M.Location: Mayor's Conference Room, City-County BuildingInterview With Ted Anthony Of The Associated PressTime: 10:15 A.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County BuildingTelephone Call With Jerry AbramsonTime: 11:30 A.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County BuildingMeeting With Director Of Management &amp; Budget Kevin PawlosTime: 2:00 P.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County BuildingWelcoming Delegation From Sister City Saitama City To PittsburghTime: 3:00 P.M.Location: Mayor's Conference Room, City-County BuildingJapan-American Society Annual DinnerTime: 6:00 P.M.Location: The Duquesne Club, Central Business DistrictPittsburgh Bureau Of Police Graduation CeremonyTime: 7:00 P.M.Location: Alumni Hall - University of Pittsburgh, North OaklandCelebrating BNY Mellon's 150th AnniversaryTime: 8:00 P.M.Location: Senator John Heinz History Center, Strip District | 14/11/2019 11:25:13 |
| New Urban Redevelopment Authority Leadership Announced | PITTSBURGH, PA (November 14, 2019) Mayor William Peduto and Urban Redevelopment Authority board chair Sam Williamson today announced Greg Flisram of Kansas City, Mo., will be the new Executive Director of the URA.Flisram is currently the interim president and CEO of the Economic Development Corporation of Kansas City (EDCKC). He will join current URA interim executive director Diamonte Walker, who is being promoted to Deputy Executive Director, in leading Pittsburgh’s redevelopment arm.“Greg’s experience and vision will be perfect for Pittsburgh as we prepare for the next generation of the URA,” Mayor Peduto said. “Working with Diamonte and URA staff, his appointment will enable us to build an authority focused on neighborhood development, workforce development, equity and affordable housing.”In Kansas City, Flisram’s organization EDCKC has been responsible with creating 3,500 new jobs in the city and for $1 billion of capital investment per year. Before joining EDCKC he was the development director for the City of Green Bay, Wisconsin, where he led that city’s successful downtown riverfront redevelopment efforts and advised the Green Bay Packers on the development of the sports and entertainment-focused “Titletown District” adjacent to Lambeau Field. Before joining the public sector, he worked in development roles in cities including Milwaukee; Grand Rapids; Muskegon, Mich., Newport Beach, Calif.; and Sugarland, Tex.“Pittsburgh is a national model of economic renewal and reinvention that many people have had their eyes on for a long time. I’m looking forward to helping write the city’s next chapter and to help spread prosperity to neighborhoods and populations that have not been lifted by the rising tide. I’m very excited to hit the ground running,” Flisram said. The appointment will be subject to a vote today by the URA board.“This is a dynamic leadership team, and Diamonte and Greg are going to help us implement a vision of the URA that is more focused on people than on projects,” Williamson said.Walker joined the URA in 2017, quickly becoming the driving force behind the agency’s MWBE strategy and ushering in economic inclusion initiatives such as the microloan program and the Catapult/Gallery on Penn retail incubator.“I am overjoyed with the appointment of Greg Flisram as the URA’s new executive director. This signals a bold, new direction for the agency as we work to center our economic development strategy on creating an exemplary quality of life for all Pittsburghers,” Walker said. “I look forward to serving with Greg as a part of this new strategic leadership team. I’m honored and humbled to serve as Deputy Executive Director on behalf of the URA’s board and the City of Pittsburgh.The first order of business for Flisram and Walker will be working with URA staff to begin a planning process to implement recommendations – developed over the past year by HR&amp;A Advisors – that will more effectively plan and implement economic development initiatives for the City.A forthcoming report will establish a vision for the URA’s next chapter and identifies several important reforms that the URA and City government must undertake to advance progress towards a more prosperous and equitable Pittsburgh. Recommendations will include establishing and communicating a clear economic development agenda; streamlining coordination and strengthening connections among the URA, City agencies, external stakeholders, and community partners; embedding clear goals and metrics into URA strategic planning; and developing a financial sustainability plan. | 14/11/2019 09:07:47 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Friday, November 15, 2019 | Headspace Health &amp; Happiness Breakfast SummitTime: 9:00 A.M.Location: Schenley Plaza, North OaklandRepresentative Ed Gainey's 7th Annual Police Community Awards ProgramTime: 12:00 P.M.Location: Pittsburgh Bureau of Police Headquarters, ChateauInterview With Reid FrazierTime: 3:00 P.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County Building | 15/11/2019 08:27:30 |
| Traffic Restrictions Saturday for City of Pittsburgh Christmas Tree Delivery | PITTSBURGH, PA (November 15, 2019) The City of Pittsburgh’s Department of Public Works is announcing traffic restrictions to facilitate the delivery and installation of the City–County Building’s annual Christmas Tree.The following streets/lanes will be temporarily closed in order to secure, transport, and install the tree on Saturday, November 16, 2019:The tree will be transported from Garfield Street in Springdale between 8 a.m. and 9 a.m. The escorted route will turn north onto Colfax Street, left onto Pittsburgh Street until it changes into Freeport Road. It will continue on Freeport Road into Harmar, and turn right onto Route 910 and take the on ramp to Southbound Route 28. It will follow Route 28 South and take Exit 1A to the Veterans Bridge, Route 579 South to the off ramp for 6th Avenue/Downtown. It will turn right on 6th Avenue and left on Grant Street to 414 Grant Street.Drivers should expect delays and rolling closures as the tree is in transport. A single lane will be closed on Grant Street adjacent to the City–County Building between Fourth Avenue and Forbes Avenue from 6:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. on November 16 and 17, 2019.Those with questions regarding the transport or traffic restriction may contact City Forester Lisa Ceoffe at 412-670-5072. | 15/11/2019 10:12:43 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Saturday and Sunday, November 16-17, 2019 | No public events scheduled | 16/11/2019 10:27:30 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Monday, November 18, 2019 | Visiting Light Of Life Rescue Mission With Andrew McCutchenTime: 4:30 P.M.Location: Light of Life Rescue Mission, Western Avenue, Central North SideGarbage Olympics DinnerTime: 5:30 P.M.Location: O'Hara Student Center - University of Pittsburgh, North OaklandCelebrating Melanie Harrington's Service to Vibrant PittsburghTime: 6:30 P.M.Location: Duquesne Club, 325 Sixth Ave., Downtown | 18/11/2019 10:01:45 |
| City Announces Matching Funds from Recycling Partnership for Blue Recycling Bins | PITTSBURGH, PA (November 18, 2019) Based on the City of Pittsburgh’s zero-waste goals and the City’s commitment to help residents transition to a containerized recycling system, The Recycling Partnership is offering Pittsburgh a grant of $500,000 for Pittsburgh’s curbside residential recycling program.Earlier this year, Mayor William Peduto announced a Capital Budget proposal to fund blue bins city-wide for residents who receive service from the Bureau of Environmental Services.Today, the Mayor announced an agreement with the national nonprofit the Recycling Partnership to match the city’s 2020 Capital Budget proposal to begin the three year program to purchase and deploy recycling containers city-wide. The Recycling Partnership invests in community recycling programs nationwide and will be providing in-kind technical assistance for Pittsburgh as well as helping with education and outreach.“The Partnership is excited to respond to Mayor Peduto’s plan to help Pittsburgh transition away from a bag-based recycling program into a containerized one by offering to match the Mayor’s proposed investment dollar for dollar. By putting this grant funding on the table, The Recycling Partnership will boost the city’s ability to transition away from bags and move towards a more efficient and effective recycling program,” said Rob Taylor, Director of Grants and Community Development at The Recycling Partnership. “A move away from blue bags is a perfect complement to the city’s ‘Better Recycling, Better Burgh’ effort to encourage citizens to adopt bins and recycle properly.”Distribution details, vendor selection, and a tracking system have not been finalized, but interested residents can sign up for updates as the city determines the program at the following link: https://pittsburghpa.gov/blue-bin-info/ or contact 311 by phone at 412-255-2621.This initiative will expand on Pennsylvania Resources Council’s initiative that has provided Pittsburgh residents with over 10,000 blue bins and recycling education since 2015.Recyclables placed loosely in blue containers are ideal for Environmental Services workers to collect. Using blue bags tends to clog machinery when processed at the Material Recovery Facility (MRF) run by Recycle Source in the Hazelwood neighborhood of Pittsburgh.Environmental Services collects waste and recycling from 115,630 residences inside Pittsburgh’s city limits. As a reminder the following recyclables are accepted for single-stream curbside collection by the city:Cardboard, flattened and bundledGlass bottles jugs and jars, caps and lids removedAluminum and steel cansMixed paperEmpty plastic bottles, jugs and jars, caps and lids removedPittsburgh’s Better Recycling Information CardLimited on space and have additional recyclables in between recycling weeks? Consider using one of our six recycling drop-off centers. For location and hours visit: https://pittsburghpa.gov/dpw/drop-offAbout The Recycling PartnershipThe Recycling Partnership (recyclingpartnership.org) is a national nonprofit organization that leverages corporate partner funding to transform recycling for good in states, cities and communities all across America. As the only organization in the country that engages the full recycling supply chain from the corporations that manufacture products and packaging to local governments charged with recycling to industry end markets, haulers, material recovery facilities, and converters; The Recycling Partnership positively impacts recycling at every step in the process. The Recycling Partnership has served more than 1,300 communities and counting with best-in-class tools, data, resources and technical support, helped place 600,000 recycling carts, reached 60 million American households, and helped companies and communities invest more than $43 million in recycling infrastructure. In doing so, The Recycling Partnership has created meaningful social, environmental, and economic change. By the end of 2019, the nonprofit change agent estimates it will have diverted 230 million pounds of new recyclables, saved 465 million gallons of water, avoided 250,000 metric tons of greenhouse gases, and driven significant reductions in targeted contamination rates. | 18/11/2019 13:02:24 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Tuesday, November 19, 2019 | Meeting With Delegation From American Council On GermanyTime: 10:00 A.M.Location: Mayor's Conference Room, City-County BuildingVisiting UPMC Children's Hospital Of Pittsburgh with Andrew McCutchenTime: 1:00 P.M.Location: UPMC Children's Hospital of Pittsburgh, Central LawrencevilleSpeaking At 19th Annual Friendship DinnerTime: 6:30 P.M.Location: Omni William Penn Hotel, Central Business District | 19/11/2019 08:29:06 |
| Pittsburgh Scores 100 on LGBTQ Scorecard | PITTSBURGH, PA (November 19, 2018) For the third year in a row, the City of Pittsburgh has scored 100 in the Human Rights Campaign’s Municipal Equality Index Scorecard (MEI), which rates how inclusive municipal laws, policies, and services are for LGBTQ people who live and work in more than 500 cities nationwide. MEI scores cities on matters such as offering of transgender-inclusive healthcare benefits, providing services to LGBTQ youth, an LGBTQ police liaison, and non-discrimination in City employment. While the final score cannot exceed 100, Pittsburgh also received 11 bonus points this year. “I am proud of what we and our LGBTQIA+ Advisory Council have accomplished the past few years on behalf of our residents and workers, though I know we can still do more to protect and serve them,” Mayor William Peduto said. | 19/11/2019 09:42:49 |
| Snow Angels Program Now Accepting Applications for the 2019-2020 Winter Season | PITTSBURGH, PA (November 19, 2019) The City of Pittsburgh’s Office of Community affairs is now accepting applications for the 2019-2020 Snow Angels Program. This program pairs older adult residents and residents with disabilities with nearby volunteer Snow Angels to help them shovel and salt their property throughout the winter.In order to request help from a Snow Angel, neighbors must:- Be at least 60 years old or have a physical disability- Live within City of Pittsburgh limits- Lack other resources (financial or family/friends nearby) to assist with snow removalVolunteers and neighbors in need can register for the program online at https://pittsburghpa.gov/snowangels/ or by calling the City’s 311 Response Center. The 2018-2019 program saw over 210 neighbors matched with volunteers to help them manage the hardships of winter.“We’re pleased that the Snow Angels Program has grown every year, but there are always more vulnerable residents who need help than volunteers,” said Mayor William Peduto. “I encourage Pittsburgh residents to sign up as a Snow Angel to help a neighbor in their community.”The Office of Community Affairs will offer incentives throughout the winter season for individuals to volunteer on their social media accounts on Facebook (facebook.com/ocapgh), Twitter (@ocapgh) and NextDoor. Community-based organizations, companies or employers are encouraged to assist with volunteer recruitment in their communities by having volunteers mention the organization’s name when they register. The organization that recruits the most volunteers will win the 2019-2020 Golden Shovel award and other incentives that will be announced later.For more information or to find out more about how to help with volunteer recruitment, contact the Snow Angels Program at snowangels@pittsburghpa.gov or 412-255-0846. | 19/11/2019 09:27:56 |
| City Launches Interactive Budgeting Tool for 2020 Budget Season | PITTSBURGH, PA (November 20, 2019) The City of Pittsburgh’s Office of Management and Budget has launched the 2020 version of "Balancing Act," the online public engagement tool that allows residents to dig into the city budget and provide feedback to City Council and the Mayor’s Office. The goal of this tool, now in its second year, is to allow OMB to engage more people and collect more feedback. Currently, the office hosts two public meetings yearly to collect feedback on the capital budget. This tool not only aims to broaden the way OMB receives feedback but allow greater transparency and access for a better understanding of the budgeting process.  City Council budget hearings start today.  The final public hearing on the 2020 Operating and Capital Budgets is scheduled for December 9, with the first line-item vote on the budgets set for the same day. OMB urges residents to submit their budget requests, which will be shared with Council, by that date. Through the Balancing Act interactive tool users can set their own priorities and preferences for the city's budget, and estimated receipts are generated for how tax dollars are spent. It has three components: The Tax Receipt Tool allows for an estimate of what residents contribute to the city. The Capital Budget Simulator explores the capital budget and allows for self-made blueprints for city spending. The Operating Budget Simulator challenges users to manage city books and balance the city budget. | 20/11/2019 11:12:21 |
| City Planning Awarded State and Nonprofit Grants for Hays Woods Planning | PITTSBURGH, PA (November 20, 2019) – The Department of City Planning has been awarded a $100,000 grant from the Department of Conservation and Natural Resources Community Conservation Program for the Hays Woods Master Plan. The grant will be matched by the City of Pittsburgh to provide a project total of $200,000.The grant funding will allow the master plan process to begin in 2020 and enable the City of Pittsburgh to:- Chart a path for Hays Woods to become a City of Pittsburgh park.- Enhance ecological integrity, alleviate issues from previous use as a mine, and ensure sustainable park development.- Plan public engagement opportunities to ensure Hays Woods becomes a place for all Pittsburghers, neighboring municipalities, and regional visitors.- Explore recreational potential, identify existing trails, and create new trails to ensure access for a wide variety of users, from biking trails to ADA accessible paths.- Address transportation and circulation needs relating to current limited access and difficult site terrain.- Create a master plan with phases, cost-estimates, and funding sources to facilitate implementation.The Department of City Planning has also received an abandoned mine land and drainage assessment grant through Trout Unlimited that will begin in December 2019. The assessment will document issues related to former deep mining on the site and provide recommendations for remediation.The 626-acre undeveloped site in southeastern Pittsburgh, historically serving industrial purposes including coal mining, was purchased by the Urban Redevelopment Authority in 2016 and will be transferred to the City for park development.In 2018, Mayor William Peduto established the Hays Woods Task Force, led by Councilman Corey O’Connor and former Mayor Tom Murphy, to identify best land uses, opportunities and constraints, and guiding principles for future site master planning. The year-long task force process drew upon the expertise of representatives from local and regional groups, culminating in a report to the Mayor and City Council that presents recommendations for Hays Woods and will inform the master planning process.The Task Force Report and more information regarding Hays Woods can be found at https://pittsburghpa.gov/dcp/hays-woods-docs.For More Information:Kara Smith, PLAProject Manager, Principal Environmental Plannerkara.smith@pittsburghpa.govAndrew DashActing Director, Department of City Planningandrew.dash@pittsburghpa.gov | 20/11/2019 13:56:42 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Wednesday, November 20, 2019 | Welcoming Delegation From Embassy Of DenmarkTime: 10:00 A.M.Location: Mayor's Conference Room, City-County BuildingWeekly Meeting With Director Of Public Safety Wendell Hissrich &amp; Chief Of Police Scott SchubertTime: 2:00 P.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County BuildingMeeting With Monique PierreTime: 3:30 P.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County BuildingAttending Screening Of "A Beautiful Day In The Neighborhood"Time: 6:30 P.M.Location: South Side Works Cinema, South Side Flats | 20/11/2019 08:22:43 |
| PLI Director Maura Kennedy Leaving for New Position | PITTSBURGH, PA (November 20, 2019) After six years working successfully to modernize the City of Pittsburgh’s building inspection systems, Department of Permits, Licenses and Inspection Director Maura Kennedy is leaving the City for a position in Washington, D.C. Kennedy announced to employees last month that she was leaving Friday, November 22, to become an Economic Development Manager with Amazon’s Public Policy team. “Maura took on one of the hardest jobs in City government and out-performed all our expectations. On behalf of the residents and businesses of Pittsburgh I want to thank her for her service,” Mayor William Peduto said. When Kennedy joined the Peduto administration in 2014 the then-Bureau of Building Inspection kept all of its records on paper and inspectors had neither laptops nor cell phones. Kennedy led the modernization of the renamed Department, even as permitting requests grew exponentially with the City’s recent building boom. Upgrades continued into this year with the introduction of One Stop PGH, which offers online permitting and licensing for the first time. In her role as Director, Kennedy’s contributions also included: - Achieving a 500% increase in permit activity ($200M to $1.2B). Reduced permit wait times from 27 to 8 days, increased violation compliance rates from 6% to 71% and increased revenues by more than 40%.- Creating an interactive mapping site called BuildingEye, an online tool that allows citizens to be able to access all location-based permit, license, and violation data in real time. Scanned thousands of historical records so they are accessible by field personnel and the public.- Reorganizing PLI to optimize functional alignment. Re-wrote job descriptions and revised employee recruitment to improve experience and diversity of candidates. Launched staff technical training program, recognized by state and national professional organization as a best practice.- Starting proactive inspection procedures for more than 6,000 old, uninspected permits, 5,000 high risk structures under the fire code and 2,000 vacant structures. This effort helped reduce structure fires and building collapses in Pittsburgh.- Restructuring the bidding process for the first time in more than 20 years to make demolition more transparent, safe, environmentally sound, and timely. Changes reduced the cost of demolitions by 30%, allowing the City to demolish more structures.“I have tremendously enjoyed my time here and am so proud of the work that we accomplished together. This is a strong team and you are all thoughtful, compassionate, and technically excellent leaders. I have no doubt that PLI will continue to provide good service to the citizens and businesses of Pittsburgh going forward,” she said. As of Saturday Assistant PLI Director Sarah Kinter will be named acting director of the department. Before joining the Peduto Administration Kennedy held similar positions with the City of Philadelphia and served as Deputy Press Secretary for Mayor Michael A. Nutter.  She is a nationally recognized leader in building code administration and code enforcement.Kennedy is a graduate of Cornell University and holds a Master’s in Business Administration from the Wharton School, University of Pennsylvania. | 20/11/2019 11:21:05 |
| McArdle Roadway to Close for Cleaning Thursday Morning | PITTSBURGH, PA (November 20, 2019) The City of Pittsburgh Department of Public Works advises that McArdle Roadway, between Grandview Avenue and the Liberty Bridge in Mount Washington, will be closed on Thursday, November 21, 2019, from 9:00 a.m. to 1:00 p.m. for maintenance and clean up.The work is being done in advance of Light Up Night on Friday. | 20/11/2019 12:24:13 |
| Senator Fontana Funds City Mobility Projects in Brighton Heights and the West End | PITTSBURGH, PA (November 21, 2019) Pedestrian and bicycle friendly projects in Brighton Heights and the West End were awarded funding from state Sen. Wayne Fontana this week. The Senator’s office secured $200,000 in Gaming Economic Development Fund monies for the Davis Avenue Pedestrian Bridge and $100,000 for the West End Trolley Trail project. Money for the Davis Avenue Bridge will go into planning for the project, which is estimated to cost $2 million overall. Plans are to construct a pedestrian/bicycle bridge that will directly link the Brighton Heights neighborhood to Riverview Park, at a similar elevation as the Allegheny Observatory and off-leash dog park, which are two of the park’s most popular amenities. “We’re extremely grateful that the Peduto Administration and state officials have made the commitment to reconnect Riverview Park to her surrounding neighborhoods by reinvesting in infrastructure that had been neglected to the point of demolition. This project will correct past errors in allowing our bridges to deteriorate and provide access for generations to come,” said Nicholas Ross, Chair of Walk Ride Northside, a committee of the Northside Leadership Conference. State funds will also go into planning for the estimated $600,000 West End Trolley trail project, which includes plans for a half-mile trail that will ultimately connect the West End business district with the Great Allegheny Passage, the Montour Trail and the Three Rivers Trail system. “I want to thank Senator Fontana and Mayor William Peduto for their commitment to the West End, and opening more connections for neighborhood residents and businesses to the greater Pittsburgh region,” City Councilwoman Theresa Kail-Smith said. Mayor Peduto also thanked state Representatives Adam Ravenstahl and Dan Deasy for their support of the projects. | 21/11/2019 11:08:10 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Thursday, November 21, 2019 | Telephone Interview With Alan GreenblattTime: 11:30 A.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County BuildingInterview On The Pitchwerks PodcastTime: 1:00 P.M.Location: Work Hard Pittsburgh, 744 E. Warrington Avenue, AllentownMeeting With KDKA-TV General Manager Chris CotugnoTime: 2:30 P.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County BuildingPittsburgh Hispanic Development Corp. Incubator Grand OpeningTime: 5 P.M.Location:1555 Broadway Avenue, Second Floor,, Beechview | 21/11/2019 08:29:10 |
| Sheraden Park Master Plan To Be Presented To Community | PITTSBURGH, PA (November 18, 2019) – The City of Pittsburgh Department of City Planning is working with the Sheraden community to finalize the master plan for Sheraden Park.On Thursday, December 5, a draft of the Sheraden Park Master Plan will be presented to community members for the last round of comments before the plan is finalized. The draft master plan incorporates the feedback that has been acquired so far into a cohesive plan.On Thursday, January 23, the final Sheraden Park Master Plan will be presented, showcasing the individual park amenities and phased implementation plan. At this meeting, community members will see the entire plan and how elements will be implemented.Community members may stop by any time during the event to review materials at their pace. Both meetings will be open house style from 6-8 p.m. at the Sheraden Healthy Active Living Center, 720 Sherwood Ave.The Sheraden Park Master Plan will guide the investment from the City in designing and constructing a reimagined park for the community. The Master Plan is a recommendation of the City’s Open Space, Parks and Recreation Plan, which called for Sheraden Park to be designated as a signature community park. The scale of Sheraden Park provides potential to serve a large population and provide green premium benefits to areas not benefitting from proximity to the City’s five regional parks.“The plan has been created and shaped by comments and ideas shared at the first two meetings in the planning series, along with key stakeholder interviews,” said Marti Battistone, project manager. “The Sheraden community expressed their priorities, concerns and dreams. This plan will help to make the park a place for all residents to use.”More information about the plan can be found at https://pittsburghpa.gov/dcp/sheraden-park.For More Information:Martina BattistoneProject Manager, Senior Plannermartina.battistone@pittsburghpa.govAndrew DashActing Director, Department of City Planningandrew.dash@pittsburghpa.gov | 21/11/2019 14:54:42 |
| Annual Pittsburgh Christmas Tree Lighting Friday Evening &amp; Debut of New Gingerbread House Display | PITTSBURGH, PA (November 21, 2019) The City of Pittsburgh will officially kick off the holiday season with the 104th Christmas Tree Lighting Ceremony and debut of the Gingerbread House Display &amp; Competition on Light Up Night, Friday, November 22, 2019, from 5:15 - 9:00 p.m. on Grant Street.The Honorable Mayor William Peduto will join City officials and local leaders for the annual ceremony. The Mayor will also be joined by the Malinowski Family, the donors of the 2019 tree, to light the spectacular 50-foot evergreen.Downtowns only live evergreen, Pittsburgh’s first Christmas Tree lighting ceremony took place in 1915 on the construction site of an unfinished City-County Building.At 5:45 P.M. the City-County Building doors formally open with a ribbon cutting to unveil the 17th Annual Gingerbread House Display &amp; Competition, which celebrates its first year at its new location in the City-County Building's Grand Lobby. A delightful display of hundreds of delicious gingerbread dwellings created by talented individuals, families, organizations, students and chefs fills the Grand Lobby and remains on display throughout the holiday season.Festivities continue with the musically timed City-County Building Lightshow illuminating the Grant Street facade every 30 minutes between 6-8:00 p.m. This will alternate with performances by Pittsburgh Musical Theater's "Extreme Teen Broadway" and CMU Treblemakers a appella group .Members of the public and those looking to warm up are invited to join free tours of the historic state rooms of City-County Building from 6-9 p.m..Guests will get the rare opportunity to explore the history of our city through the eyes of its seat of government. Rarely seen spaces including the Archival Vault will be open.Guests are invited to continue the celebration during the Pittsburgh Downtown Partnership’s Comcast Light Up Night. Complete details for Comcast Light Up Night can be found here: http://www.downtownpittsburghholidays.com/light-up-night/.For more information on City-County Building events, visit: pittsburghpa.gov/gingerbreadContacts:James Hill – Executive Assistant to the Mayor, 412-522-3320, james.hill@pittsburghpa.gov | 21/11/2019 13:42:40 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Friday, November 22, 2019 | Pennsylvania GI Bill Event With Governor Tom WolfTime: 1:30 P.M.Location: Southwestern Pennsylvania Regional Veterans Center, Lincoln-Lemington-BelmarMeeting With Joe Powers &amp; Kevin GallagherTime: 3:00 P.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County BuildingMeeting With Representative Sara InnamoratoTime: 4:00 P.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County BuildingLighting Of The City Of Pittsburgh's 104th Christmas Tree &amp; Ribbon Cutting Of Gingerbread DisplayTime: 5:15 P.M.Location: Grand Portico, City-County BuildingAttending Light Up Night Events In Golden TriangleTime: 6:00 P.M.Location: Central Business District, Pittsburgh | 22/11/2019 08:29:57 |
| City Offices &amp; Facilities to Close for Thanksgiving Weekend, Refuse Collection Delayed One Day | PITTSBURGH, PA (November 25, 2019) City of Pittsburgh offices and facilities will be closed on Thanksgiving Day as well as Friday, November 29. Offices will reopen Monday, December 2. There will not be any refuse, bulk waste or recycling collection on Thanksgiving. The schedule will proceed as follows: Collection scheduled for Thursday, November 28th, will be serviced on Friday, November 29th.  Collection scheduled for Friday, November 29th, will be serviced on Saturday, November 30th. In addition to City of Pittsburgh offices, the following Citiparks facilities will also have closures: HEALTHY ACTIVE LIVING CENTERS (Senior Centers)CLOSED Thursday, November, 28, 2019 CLOSED Friday, November 29, 2019 (Note:  HAL Centers are closed Saturdays and Sundays) RECREATION CENTERSCLOSED Thursday, November, 28, 2019 CLOSED Friday, November 29, 2019 CLOSED Saturday, November 30, 2019 CLOSED Sunday, December 1, 2019 MELLON TENNIS BUBBLECLOSED Thursday, November 28, 2019OLIVER BATH HOUSEThe Oliver Bath House will CLOSE at 7:30 p.m. Wednesday, November 27, 2019 CLOSED Thursday, November 28, 2019 AFTER-SCHOOL FOOD PROGRAM (CACFP in conjunction with PPS) In conjunction with PPS Thanksgiving Break, the After-School Food Program (CACFP) will not be in operation from Thanksgiving Day, Thursday, November 28, 2019 through Monday, December 2, 2019.  Service will resume on Tuesday, December 3, 2019. Please also note the following info on three After-School Food Program Locations:   Schenley Heights Community Development Center is closed until further notice for the After-School Food Program. Salvation Army Homewood will be closed beginning Monday, December 9, 2019 through January 4, 2020.  After-School Food Service will resume on Monday, January 6, 2020. Manchester Craftsmen’s Guild will be closed beginning November 27, 2019 through January 4, 2020.  After-School Food Service will resume on Monday, January 6, 2020. | 25/11/2019 09:30:01 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Monday, November 25, 2019 | Interview With The Pittsburgh Post-Gazette's Rich LordTime: 11:00 A.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County BuildingPresenting Anniversary Proclamation To GoodwillTime: 12:00 P.M.Location: Mayor's Conference Room, City-County BuildingVisiting City High Civics ClassTime: 2:30 P.M.Location: City High Charter School, Central Business District | 25/11/2019 09:26:59 |
| Wenzell Avenue Reconstruction &amp; Carnahan Road Bridge Replacement Beginning Soon | PITTSBURGH, PA (November 26, 2019) The City of Pittsburgh’s Department of Mobility and Infrastructure is announcing the closure of the intersection of Carnahan Road and Banksville Avenue in the city's Banksville neighborhood starting December 7, 2019, to replace the bridge at this intersection.Traffic on Banksville Road will not be able to turn onto Carnahan Road or Banksville Avenue. There will be two lanes of traffic maintained in each direction on Banksville Road.Phase 1 of the project will run from December 7, 2019 through April 2020. Phase 2 will consist of the closure of Wenzell Avenue in Beechview and will encompass the remainder of this project.  The City appreciates patience and cooperation during this time. The projected project completion date is November 2020, weather permitting.The work is being performed by Allison Park Contractors.Those with questions regarding this project may contact Patrick Bopp, Project Manager at 412-255-0868 or patrick.bopp@pittsburghpa.gov. | 26/11/2019 15:08:37 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Tuesday, November 26, 2019 | Module Home Groundbreaking With Urban Redevelopment Authority &amp; Bloomfield-Garfield CorporationTime: 10:00 A.M.Location: 5452 Black Street, GarfieldServing Meals With East End Cooperative MinistriesTime: 11:00 A.M.Location: East End Cooperative Ministries, East LibertyInnovatePGH MeetingTime: 1:00 P.M.Location: Carnegie Mellon University, Squirrel Hill NorthMeeting With Richard King Mellon FoundationTime: 3:30 P.M.Location: BNY Mellon Center, Central Business District | 26/11/2019 08:34:37 |
| Small Business Saturday in the City of Pittsburgh | PITTSBURGH, PA (November 27, 2019) Mayor William Peduto’s administration is proud to support local entrepreneurs this holiday season.  With the help of neighbors we can support Pittsburgh’s local economy by shopping with our locally owned small businesses. When we do business locally, two-thirds of every dollar spent stays in the local economy as opposed to a little over one-third when you shop with national chains. Along with the benefits to Pittsburgh’s economy, our local merchants offer a personalized shopping experience to help you find the perfect gift for everyone on your list.  We are very proud of our neighborhood groups who are working together to plan fun events and offer various deals around the city starting on Small Business Saturday and carrying through the holidays. Additionally, The Pittsburgh Parking Authority will offer free meter parking (not garages) for Small Business Saturday, in addition to Thanksgiving, and the Friday after Thanksgiving.Small Business Saturday is a day created out of the recession in 2010 to help small businesses get more customers. Nine years later officials in all 50 states participate in the event. Many of Pittsburgh’s neighborhoods participate annually with events and incentives for shopping locally! Check out a listing of participating neighborhoods along with descriptions of activities and deals on the city’s webpage here: https://pittsburghpa.gov/mayor/sb-saturdayContact:Henry Horn Pyatt, Economic Opportunity Manager, Office of Equity, 412-255-2945, henry.horn-pyatt@pittsburghpa.gov | 27/11/2019 07:30:31 |
| Boulevard of the Allies to Remain Closed Pending Repairs | PITTSBURGH, PA (November 27, 2019) The Pennsylvania Department of Transportation and the City of Pittsburgh Department of Mobility and Infrastructure advise motorists that the Boulevard of the Allies is closed between Market Street and Wood Street in Downtown Pittsburgh with detours in effect between Stanwix Street and Smithfield Street.  Local access to all parking facilities is provided on the Boulevard or bordering streets. Pedestrian access remains open. Pedestrians are advised to use caution. The closure is the result of a service water line break and will remain in effect until the street can be restored and safely reopened to traffic. Travelers are encouraged to monitor updates via the PA511 app, PA511 website ( https://www.penndot.gov/about-us/media/511pa/Pages/default.aspx) and City social media feeds. Media Contacts:Steve Cowan, PennDOT, 412-429-5010 Timothy McNulty, City of Pittsburgh, 412-660-1999 | 27/11/2019 13:57:12 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Wednesday, November 27, 2019 | Visiting Center For Victims With Dr. Barry KerzinTime: 9:30 A.M.Location: Center for Victims - East Carson Street, South Side FlatsMeeting With Chief Of Staff Daniel Gilman, Director Of Public Safety Wendell Hissrich, &amp; Assistant Director Of Public Works Chris HornsteinTime: 12:00 P.M.Location: Mayor's Conference Room, City-County BuildingPresenting Mayor Sophie Masloff Employee Of The Month AwardTime: 1:30 P.M.Location: Mayor's Conference Room, City-County BuildingWeekly Meeting With Director Of Public Safety Wendell Hissrich &amp; Chief Of Police Scott SchubertTime: 2:00 P.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County Building Telephone Call With Bill HuntTime: 3:30 P.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County BuildingWelcoming Home Pittsburgh &amp; Area West Point Cadets For Thanksgiving HolidayTime: 8:30 P.M.Location: David L. Lawrence Convention Center, Central Business District | 27/11/2019 07:25:18 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Thursday, November 28, 2019 | Thanksgiving at Light of Life Rescue MissionTime: NoonLocation: 10 E. North Ave., Central Northside | 28/11/2019 10:27:50 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Friday, November 29, 2019 | No public events scheduled | 29/11/2019 16:57:54 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Monday, December 2, 2019 | Meeting With Foundation LeadershipTime: 8:30 A.M.Location: Centre City Tower, Central Business DistrictMeeting With Dick's Sporting Goods FoundationTime: 11:00 A.M.Location: Dick's Customer Support Center, Coraopolis, PennsylvaniaMeeting With Chief Sustainability Officer Grant ErvinTime: 12:30 P.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County BuildingOffice Of The Mayor 2020 Budget Hearing At Pittsburgh City CouncilTime: 1:30 P.M.Location: Council Chamber, City-County Building | 2/12/2019 09:10:49 |
| Mayor Peduto Joins New Climate Mayors Steering Committee Guiding Nationwide Climate Action | PITTSBURGH, PA (December 3, 2019) Today, Mayor William Peduto announced his participation in the newly launched Climate Mayors Steering Committee, a group of 24 mayors who will serve as a leading voice in efforts to further climate action across the United States.The Steering Committee will work alongside the Climate Mayors’ Chair, Mayor Eric Garcetti, and Co-Chairs, Mayors Madeline Rogero, Sylvester Turner, and Martin J. Walsh to highlight the importance of city-led climate action in creating healthier, cleaner, and more equitable and sustainable cities. The Steering Committee will also work to catalyze membership and more deeply engage their regions, as well as showcase the impactful work of existing Climate Mayors and how cities are helping meet the scope and the scale of the challenge posed by climate change.After President Trump announced his initial plans to withdraw from the landmark Paris Agreement in June 2017, more than 300 mayors joined the Climate Mayors coalition, pledging to uphold the goals of the Paris Agreement in their cities and reduce harmful greenhouse gas emissions. The network has since grown to include 438 mayors, both Democratic and Republican, who represent cities ranging in size and region and showing the overwhelming support for climate action among the majority of Americans.Today’s Steering Committee launch builds on the leadership of Climate Mayors across the country who continue to lead on building a healthier and stronger clean energy future, regardless of the decisions made at the federal level. It comes in advance of the United Nations COP25 Climate Conference in Madrid, Spain, next week.“With the leadership vacuum created by this White House cities are taking the lead in fighting climate change nationally and internationally. No matter where you live – in places big and small – your community is facing climate challenges in some way, so our task in the Climate Mayors Steering Committee is take this fight to smaller cities and towns across the country, and build our coalition,” Mayor Peduto said."Cities across our country and around the world see the impacts of climate change firsthand, and we stand front and center in the fight to address this crisis with every tool at our disposal,” said Los Angeles Mayor Eric Garcetti . “No matter what happens on the national level, cities know we cannot afford any more debates or delays, so we will continue to act to meet the goals of the Paris Agreement, protect our most vulnerable residents, strengthen global health, and create a green economy that works for everyone.”As a Climate Mayors member city, Pittsburgh has committed to bold climate action and has followed through on it by implementing its Climate Action Plan 3.0, which seeks zero waste, 50% emissions reduction, and 100% renewable electricity by 2030.“The Climate Mayors network is more than four hundred strong, and counting,” said James Ritchotte, Director of Climate Mayors . “We’re excited to have these mayors lead us in showcasing the important work of cities and maximizing the collective impact of Climate Mayors across the country who are fighting climate change in their communities.”The following mayors are members of the Climate Mayors Steering Committee:01. Steve Adler (Austin, TX)02. Ethan Berkowitz (Anchorage, AK)03. Jim Brainard (Carmel, IN)04. Michael Cahill (Beverly, MA)05. Kirk Caldwell (Honolulu, HI)06. LaToya Cantrell (New Orleans, LA)07. Melvin Carter (Saint Paul, MN)08. Jane Castor (Tampa, FL)09. Frank Cownie (Des Moines, IA)10. Bill de Blasio (New York City)11. Mike Duggan (Detroit, MI)12. Buddy Dyer (Orlando, FL)13. Kevin Faulconer (San Diego, CA)14. Greg Fischer (Louisville, KY)15. Kate Gallego (Phoenix, AZ)16. Michael Hancock (Denver, CO)17. James Hovland (Edina, MN)18. Eric Johnson (Dallas, TX)19. Lioneld Jordan (Fayetteville, AR)20. Tim Keller (Albuquerque, NM)21. Ron Nirenberg (San Antonio, TX)22. William Peduto (Pittsburgh, PA)23. Satya Rhodes-Conway (Madison, WI)24. Lucy Vinis (Eugene, OR)About Climate MayorsClimate Mayors, founded in 2014, is a diverse network of U.S. city leaders who have committed to fighting climate change. In response to the Trump administration’s withdrawal from the Paris Agreement, the network’s ranks swelled to more than 400 U.S. mayors from across the country who have committed to taking ambitious action to meet each of their cities’ current climate goals, while working together towards achieving our national Paris targets. Climate Mayors is founded and Chaired by Los Angeles Mayor Eric Garcetti, and Co-Chaired by Mayors Madeline Rogero (Knoxville), Sylvester Turner (Houston) and Martin J. Walsh (Boston). For more information, please visit www.climatemayors.org. | 3/12/2019 08:55:39 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Tuesday, December 3, 2019 | Interview With Vice NewsTime: 11:00 A.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County BuildingBureau Of Police Promotion CeremonyTime: 12:30 P.M.Location: Mayor's Conference Room, City-County BuildingBureau Of Emergency Medical Services Promotion CeremonyTime: 1:00 P.M.Location: Mayor's Conference Room, City-County BuildingMeeting With Director of Mobility &amp; Infrastructure Karina Ricks and Director of Innovation &amp; Performance Santiago GarcesTime: 3:30 P.M.Location: Mayor's Conference Room, City-County BuildingPittsburgh Police Year Of Service AwardsTime: 6:00 P.M.Location: Foerster Auditorium - Community College of Allegheny County, Allegheny West | 3/12/2019 08:12:59 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Wednesday, December 4, 2019 | Meeting with Solicitor Yvonne HiltonTime: NoonLocation: Office of the Mayor, City-County BuildingWeekly Meeting with Public Safety Director Wendell Hissrich and Police Chief Scott SchubertTime: 2 P.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County BuildingPittsburgh Tech Tour Panel DiscussionTime: 3:30 P.M.Location: UPMC Enterprises, 6425 Penn Avenue, Larimer | 4/12/2019 08:32:00 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Thursday, December 5, 2019 | No public events scheduled | 5/12/2019 08:26:55 |
| Test | This is a test | 5/12/2019 13:21:43 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Friday, December 6, 2019 | Attending Pennsylvania SocietyLocation: New York, NY | 6/12/2019 08:43:16 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Monday, December 9, 2019 | PITTSBURGH, PA (December 9, 2019) Mayor William Peduto is at the UN Conference of the Parties (COP) 25 in Madrid, Spain. COP25 is the leading international conference addressing climate change with representatives from more than 200 countries. Mayor Peduto has attended past conferences in Katowice, Poland; Bonn, Germany; and Paris, where the COP21 conference was held and the Paris Climate Agreement was signed in 2015. President Trump withdrew from the Paris Agreement but Mayor Peduto announced that Pittsburgh will abide by the accords, in which 127 governments agreed to adopt measures to combat climate change and limit temperature increases across the globe. The Mayor is a board member of USA ICLEI and of the Global Covenant of Mayors for Climate and Energy, representing North America. All of the Mayor’s expenses are being covered by conference organizers. No city tax dollars are being spent. The Mayor returns to Pittsburgh Wednesday night. Mayor William Peduto’s Public Schedule – Monday, December 9, 2019 Mayors for Climate Action MeetingTime: 9 a.m. Location: U.S. Climate Action Center, Feria de Madrid Interview ICLEI / Urban Transitions AllianceTime: 10:30 a.m. Location: Feria de Madrid Panel on NDCs to Climate EmergencyTime: 11:30 a.m. Location: Feria de Madrid “Accelerating America’s Pledge” High level launch eventTime: 1:15 p.m. Location: Feria de Madrid Panelist on scaling up action through research and innovationTime: 3 p.m. Location: Feria de Madrid Panelist on Los Angeles Cleantech Incubator and C40 CitiesTime: 4 p.m.Location: Feria de Madrid Circular Economy: Driving Systems Transformation to Net-ZeroTime: 6:30 p.m. Location: Casino de Madrid | 9/12/2019 08:18:06 |
| Pittsburgh Joins Cities Recognizing International Human Rights Day | PITTSBURGH, PA (December 10, 2019) The City of Pittsburgh today joins other cities across the world in recognizing Human Rights Day. The United Nations is giving special attention this year to the work young people are doing globally to stand up for human rights and bring change. “Young people have always been major drivers of political, economic and social change. In the last few years, they have been at the forefront of grassroots mobilizations for change. Youth participation is essential to achieve sustainable development for all. Empowering youth to better know and claim their rights will generate global benefits,” the United Nations Human Rights Office of the Commissioner said.The City’s Office of Equity has contributed to supporting youth in the region through efforts including a free monthly book program for children; the My Brother’s Keeper campaign to address opportunity gaps for young men of color; and $2 million in funding to upgrade child care facilities, among other efforts.The goals of Human Rights Day are also supported by the City’s independent Commission on Human Relations, which has worked since 1955 to enforce laws prohibiting discrimination.  Pittsburgh approved legislation in 2011 making it the fifth United States Human Rights City, and in 2016 making it the sixth U.S. city to adopt the framework of the Convention on the Elimination of all forms of Discrimination Against Women (CEDAW). The City also created its first Gender Equity Commission in 2016. In September the Gender Equity Commission released a groundbreaking white paper on gender and racial inequity in the City. It is currently conducting a citywide Gender Analysis to prepare five-year action plan on gender inequality in Pittsburgh, with guidance on monitoring the plan and its implementation. In April Mayor William Peduto was chosen as the 2019 recipient of the CEDAW Global Leadership Award by the United Nations NGO Committee on the Status of Women/New York. In October Mayor Peduto announced Pittsburgh would become the second U.S. city to adopt the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). The U.N. SDGs are: - No Poverty  - Zero Hunger  - Good Health and Well-being  - Quality Education  - Gender Equality  - Clean Water and Sanitation  - Affordable and Clean Energy  - Decent Work and Economic Growth  - Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure  - Reduced Inequality  - Sustainable Cities and Communities  - Responsible Consumption and Production  - Climate Action  - Life Below Water  - Life on Land  - Peace and Justice Strong Institutions  - Partnerships to Achieve the Goal | 10/12/2019 13:31:31 |
| Public Engagement Guide Approved by City Planning Commission | PITTSBURGH, PA (December 10, 2019) On Tuesday, December 3, the City of Pittsburgh Planning Commission unanimously approved the Public Engagement Guide.The Public Engagement Guide outlines a framework for how the City should conduct engagement efforts through planning processes and establishes guidelines for improving the approach to engagement more broadly. It will require thorough documentation of engagement processes for long-range planning projects into the future.In addition to the guide, a Public Engagement Toolkit was created to provide resources for community organizations and planners to use in finding the best engagement tools for each neighborhood and project. The toolkit shares details on 42 engagement tools, from descriptions of how the tool can be used to a list of resources needed.The guide was developed through a collaboration of perspectives from across the City to help increase engagement with the planning process. In fall 2018, City Planning invited the Pittsburgh community to participate in a panel on public engagement and a Public Engagement Working Group to review and renew the approach to public participation, particularly in long-range planning processes. The Public Engagement Working Group included a diverse and broad range of experts in public engagement, including individuals representing local universities, public schools, faith-based organizations, nonprofit organizations, and community organizations.“The Public Engagement Guide presents a path for how engagement should be conducted throughout planning and sets expectations for increased engagement and increased transparency of our processes,” said Andrew Dash, Acting Director of the Department of City Planning. “This guide was developed in collaboration with Public Engagement Working Group, City departments and authorities, and residents, to make a resource unique for Pittsburgh.” More information on the Public Engagement Guide can be found at pittsburghpa.gov/dcp/EngagePGH.For More Information:Sophia RobisonProject Manager, Neighborhood Plannersophia.robison@pittsburghpa.govAndrew DashActing Director, Department of City Planningandrew.dash@pittsburghpa.gov | 10/12/2019 14:30:05 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Tuesday, December 10, 2019 | PITTSBURGH, PA (December 10, 2019) Mayor William Peduto is at the UN Conference of the Parties (COP) 25 in Madrid, Spain. COP25 is the leading international conference addressing climate change with representatives from more than 200 countries. Mayor Peduto has attended past conferences in Katowice, Poland; Bonn, Germany; and Paris, where the COP21 conference was held and the Paris Climate Agreement was signed in 2015. President Trump withdrew from the Paris Agreement but Mayor Peduto announced that Pittsburgh will abide by the accords, in which 127 governments agreed to adopt measures to combat climate change and limit temperature increases across the globe. The Mayor is a board member of USA ICLEI and of the Global Covenant of Mayors for Climate and Energy, representing North America. All of the Mayor’s expenses are being covered by conference organizers. No city tax dollars are being spent. The Mayor returns to Pittsburgh tomorrow night. | 10/12/2019 08:24:39 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Wednesday, December 11, 2019 | PITTSBURGH, PA (December 11, 2019) Mayor William Peduto returns to PIttsburgh this evening after attending the UN Conference of the Parties (COP) 25 in Madrid, Spain. COP25 is the leading international conference addressing climate change with representatives from more than 200 countries. Mayor Peduto has attended past conferences in Katowice, Poland; Bonn, Germany; and Paris, where the COP21 conference was held and the Paris Climate Agreement was signed in 2015. President Trump withdrew from the Paris Agreement but Mayor Peduto announced that Pittsburgh will abide by the accords, in which 127 governments agreed to adopt measures to combat climate change and limit temperature increases across the globe. The Mayor is a board member of USA ICLEI and of the Global Covenant of Mayors for Climate and Energy, representing North America. All of the Mayor’s expenses were covered by conference organizers. No city tax dollars were spent.Mayor William Peduto’s Public Schedule – Wednesday, December 11, 2019: Flights to PittsburghTime: 11 a.m. - 10 p.m. | 11/12/2019 08:23:36 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Thursday, December 12, 2019 | New Pittsburgh Courier Women Of Excellence LuncheonTime: 12:00 P.M.Location: Wyndham Grand Hotel, Central Business DistrictMeeting With City Solicitor &amp; Chief Legal Officer Yvonne HiltonTime: 1:30 P.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County BuildingVisiting Macedonia Church Of PittsburghTime: 2:30 P.M.Location: Bedford Avenue, Bedford DwellingsMeeting With WAMO LeadershipTime: 3:30 P.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County Building | 12/12/2019 09:03:02 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Friday, December 13, 2019 | Pittsburgh Bureau of Fire Graduation CeremonyTime: 10:00 A.M.Location: Pittsburgh Theological Seminary, East LibertyMemorandum Of Understanding Signing with Western Pennsylvania Energy ConsortiumTime: 11:30 A.M.Location: Mayor's Conference Room, City-County BuildingInterview with Lisa Friedman of The New York TimesTime: 12:00 P.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County BuildingMeeting With Pittsburgh Water &amp; Sewer AuthorityTime: 1:00 P.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County BuildingMeeting with anu jainTime: 2:00 P.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County BuildingMeeting With AuroraTime: 3:00 P.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County Building | 13/12/2019 08:22:12 |
| Arlington Avenue Near Liberty Tunnels to Close December 20-24 | UPDATE: As of Monday, December 23, Arlington Avenue has reopened.PITTSBURGH, PA (December 16, 2019) The City of Pittsburgh Department of Mobility and Infrastructure is announcing that the 300 block of Arlington Avenue in the city’s Allentown neighborhood will be closed for up to five days to demolish two homes affected by a February landslide. Arlington Avenue will be closed from Warrington Avenue to McArdle Roadway, adjacent to the Liberty Bridge, from Friday, December 20, until Tuesday, December 24.  It will be closed to vehicular, pedestrian and bicycle traffic. Nearby residents will be able to access their homes from the Warrington Avenue end of the closure.  Crews hired by the Department of Permits, Licences and Inspections will be demolishing vacant homes at 322 and 324 Arlington Avenue that were compromised by a landslide that began on a hillside above the homes on Williams Street. Vehicular detours will be as follows: Inbound: Arlington Avenue; Right onto E Warrington Avenue; Left across Saw Mill Run Boulevard toward Downtown; Left into Liberty Tunnel; Right onto PJ McArdle Roadway. Outbound: Arlington Avenue; Right onto PJ McArdle Roadway; Left into Liberty Tunnel; Right onto Route 19; Right onto W Warrington Avenue. Detours will be necessary for the 51L and 43 Port Authority Transit bus lines. | 16/12/2019 14:17:40 |
| City Issues Paid Sick Days Guidelines | PITTSBURGH, PA (December 16, 2019) The City of Pittsburgh Law Department has issued its guidelines for the City’s Paid Sick Days ordinance.  Pursuant to legislation passed by Pittsburgh City Council in 2015 — and upheld by the state Supreme Court in June — the law will take effect 90 days from today’s posting of the guidelines, which will be March 15, 2020. Under the ordinance all employers with 15 or more employees are required to offer up to 40 hours of paid sick time per year, and those employing less than 15 employees 24 hours of paid sick time. The guidelines can be found here on the City of Pittsburgh website. On the website the City also invites formal comments regarding the guidelines and notice. | 16/12/2019 14:45:57 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Monday, December 16, 2019 | Meeting With Councilman R. Daniel Lavelle &amp; Hill Community Development Corporation President Marimba MillionesTime: 12:00 P.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County BuildingMeeting With Superintendent of Pittsburgh Public Schools Dr. Anthony HamletTime: 2:00 P.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County BuildingWeekly Scheduling MeetingTime: 4:00 P.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County Building | 16/12/2019 10:22:19 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Tuesday, December 17, 2019 | Lyft Job Access Press Conference With Partner4WorkTime: 10:00 A.M.Location: Grant Street Portico, City-County BuildingMeeting With Teamsters Local 249 President Kevin SchmittTime: 11:00 A.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County BuildingInterview With The Pittsburgh Post-Gazette's Rich LordTime: 1:00 P.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County BuildingGiant Eagle Press ConferenceTime: 2:00 P.M.Location: Giant Eagle at the Waterworks Shopping Center, 910 Freeport Road, Lincoln-Lemington-Belmar | 17/12/2019 08:16:10 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Wednesday, December 18, 2019 | Meeting With Dr. Jose-Alain SahelTime: 10:30 A.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County BuildingMeeting With Bill GallagherTime: 11:30 A.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County BuildingMeeting With Office Manager Gloria ForouzanTime: 12:00 P.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County BuildingWeekly Meeting With Director Of Public Safety Wendell Hissrich &amp; Chief Of Police Scott SchubertTime: 2:00 P.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County BuildingMeeting With Jamaica JohnsonTime: 3:30 P.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County Building | 18/12/2019 08:26:26 |
| Mayor Peduto Names Marty LaMar Chief Economic Development Officer | PITTSBURGH, PA (December 18, 2019) Mayor William Peduto today named Marty LaMar, a nationally-recognized development and affordable housing expert, as the City’s Chief Economic Development Officer. LaMar was lately the regional vice president for McCormack Baron Management and previously served as president and CEO of the Lucas Metropolitan Housing Authority in Toledo; as senior vice president - policy and planning, and director of resident development for the Philadelphia Housing Authority; and director – strategic policy, real estate development and regulatory affairs for the Atlanta Housing Authority. In his new role LaMar will coordinate work by the Departments of City Planning and Permits, Licenses and Inspections; the Housing Authority of the City of Pittsburgh; the Pittsburgh Land Bank; and the new leadership team at the Urban Redevelopment Authority of Pittsburgh. “Marty is just the right person to help us re-focus our development efforts on affordable housing, Main Street streetface improvements and neighborhood revitalization citywide,” Mayor Peduto said. “He will bring years of experience, a national perspective and best practices to this critical work in Pittsburgh.” “I am very proud and honored to serve Pittsburgh, a city I love and now call home,” LaMar said. “I sincerely thank Mayor Peduto for the opportunity grow the city’s economy and bring more opportunities to Pittsburgh.” LaMar has two Master’s degrees in Public Administration and Social Work from the University of Washington-Seattle in 2007; a Master’s in Business Administration from Brenau University in Gainesville, Georgia in 2002; and a Bachelor’s degree in Finance from Alabama A&amp;M University in Huntsville, Alabama in 1996. He begins work with the City on January 6. Photo: Marty LaMar | 18/12/2019 09:46:31 |
| City Announces Christmas and New Year's Day Closures and Refuse Collection Changes | REMINDERPITTSBURGH, PA (December 18, 2019) City of Pittsburgh offices and facilities will be closed on Christmas Day and New Year’s Day, and refuse collection will be postponed both days as well. Refuse and recycling collection will proceed as follows: Residents with a scheduled day of collection on Wednesday, December 25, will be serviced on Thursday, December 26. Those with a scheduled day of collection on Thursday, December 26, will serviced on Friday, December 27th. Those with a scheduled day of collection on Friday, December 27, will be serviced on Saturday, December 28. Those delayed collection schedules will repeat on Wednesday, January 1, through the end of the week. All City of Pittsburgh offices will be closed on December 25 and January 1. The following facilities will also be closed: HEALTHY ACTIVE LIVING CENTERS (Senior Centers) Wednesday, December 25, 2019: CLOSED Wednesday, January 1, 2020: CLOSED RECREATION CENTERSMonday &amp; Tuesday, December 23 &amp; 24, 2019: 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Wednesday, December 25, 2019: CLOSED Thursday &amp; Friday, December 26 &amp; 27, 2019: 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Saturday, December 28, 2019: Regular Hours of Operation for Saturdays as posted on Citiparks.net Sunday, December 29, 2019: CLOSED Monday &amp; Tuesday, December 30 &amp; 31, 2019: 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Wednesday, January 1, 2020: CLOSED Thursday, January 2, 2020: Return to Regular Hours as posted on Citiparks.net AFTER-SCHOOL FEEDING PROGRAMIn conjunction with the PPS Winter Break, the After-School Feeding Program (CACFP) will not be in operation from Monday, December 23, 2019 through Wednesday, January 1, 2020 at any of Citiparks CACFP locations. Service will resume at most locations on Thursday, January 2, 2020.Please also note the following info on 3 After-School Food Program Locations: Schenley Heights Community Development Center is closed until further notice for the After-School Food Program. Salvation Army Homewood will be closed beginning Monday, December 9, 2019 through January 4, 2020. After-School Food Service will resume on Monday, January 6, 2020. Manchester Craftsmen’s Guild will be closed beginning November 27, 2019 through January 4, 2020. After-School Food Service will resume on Monday, January 6, 2020. MELLON TENNIS BUBBLE &amp; OLIVER BATH HOUSETuesday, December 24, 2019: Closing at 4 p.m. Wednesday, December 25, 2019: CLOSED Tuesday, December 31, 2019: Closing at 4 p.m. Wednesday, January 1, 2020: CLOSED | 18/12/2019 13:24:22 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Thursday, December 19, 2019 | Groundbreaking For The National Aviary's Garden Pavilion ProjectTime: 10:00 A.M.Location: The National Aviary - Allegheny Commons Park, Allegheny CenterMeeting With Senator Jay Costa, Senator Wayne Fontana, Allegheny County Executive Rich Fitzgerald, &amp; Sports &amp; Exhibition Authority Executive Director Mary ConturoTime: 1:00 P.M.Location: Mayor's Conference Room, City-County BuildingMeeting With Pittsburgh Board Of Public Education Member Devon TaliaferroTime: 2:30 P.M.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County Building | 19/12/2019 08:17:54 |
| URA Board to Vote on Credit Building Program for Pittsburgh Small Businesses | PITTSBURGH, PA (December 19, 2019) The board of the Urban Redevelopment Authority of Pittsburgh is set today to vote on funding to help small businesses build credit history and financial stability. The board will vote on a $100,000 grant to the Riverside Center for Innovation in partnership with Axiom Advancement Corporation. Axiom is launching its Credit Builder program with Kiva Pittsburgh, an online crowd funding platform, and RCI, a business incubation center, to advance the program.  The Credit Builder program will match Kiva Pittsburgh’s 0% interest small business loans up to $5,000, providing up to $10,000 capital for many emerging businesses to start building credit and creating financial stability for their respective businesses. Along with the capital, the businesses will receive pre-loan technical assistance. The program aims to position borrowers for additional growth capital, including the URA’s micro enterprise loan program. “Riverside Center for Innovation is grateful for the URA's continued commitment in working entrepreneurial support organizations, so that agencies like RCI and Axiom can provide the necessary tools and services needed to assist and grow small microbusinesses having a very hard time finding pre-seed funds to jump start their business – especially in some of the most vulnerable neighborhoods that have not seen economic opportunities,” said RCI Executive Director Juan Garrett. | 19/12/2019 10:27:20 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Friday, December 20, 2019 | CitiParks Greenfield Healthy Active Living Center Christmas PartyTime: 11:00 A.M.Location: Greenfield Healthy Active Living Center, GreenfieldMeeting With Dr. Barfuor Adjei-Barwuah, Ambassador The Republic Of GhanaTime: 12:00 P.M.Location: Mayor's Conference Room, City-County Building | 20/12/2019 09:02:58 |
| Waterfront Place Closure Scheduled to Begin January 2 | PITTSBURGH, PA (December 20, 2019) The City of Pittsburgh Department of Mobility and Infrastructure and The NRP Group, developers of Riverfront Landing II, have announced that Waterfront Place in the Strip District will be closed to vehicular traffic from 16th Street to 18th Street.The closure is expected to last 30 months, beginning on January 2, 2020. During this time, one half of the road will be obstructed for construction activity and the other half will be a corridor for pedestrian and bike traffic only.All westbound vehicles traveling on Railroad Street/Waterfront Place will be detoured to Smallman Street at 21St Street. All eastbound vehicles traveling on Waterfront Place will be detoured to Smallman Street at 15th Street. The detour will have directional signage.On Waterfront Place from 16th Street to 18th Street, there will be a protected corridor for pedestrian and bike traffic with jersey barriers and fencing.Between 15th Street and 16th Street; and 18th Street and 21st Street, cyclists will be directed to bike in the travel lane along with vehicle traffic and pedestrians will be routed back onto the sidewalks.There may be temporary periods of full closure of all traffic, both pedestrian and vehicular during construction. In these times, all traffic will be detoured to Smallman Street or Penn Avenue. The NRP Group has created a map to show areas of safety concerns and detoursMore information on the development project can be found here: https://nrpconstruction.com/Home/ProjectDetail/ec6466e6-b757-46d2-bf56-d0bc582fd5d3 .Questions can be directed though the city’s 311 response system: https://pittsburghpa.gov/311/form | 20/12/2019 14:51:31 |
| City of Pittsburgh Expands Christmas Tree Recycling Program | PITTSBURGH, PA (December 23, 2019)  The City of Pittsburgh is again expanding its Christmas Tree Recycling program this year by providing twelve drop-off locations for live trees from December 26 to January 26. The program empowers residents to have their trees recycled rather than sent to a landfill, which happens when they are placed at the curb.  Last year, the city hosted ten drop-off sites and collected more than 21 tons of trees. This year, the Forestry Division and Bureau of Environmental Services within the Department of Public Works will collaborate to host twelve drop-off sites. The trees collected this winter will again be chipped into pine mulch and made available to the public for free this spring.  The tree recycling program dovetails with the city’s Climate Action Plan, which defines milestones toward zero waste goals. The city’s Cable Channel created a brief public service announcement to remind residents that all ornaments, netting, tinsel and tree stands must be removed before the tree is dropped off: https://youtu.be/6Rgr1dQ1u6EResidents may call 311 or visit the website here for more information. The website features a map to help residents find their most convenient drop-off location.  Three Department of Public Works sites are available year-round for yard debris (including tree) drop-off, from 8 a.m.-1 p.m. Monday through Saturday. They are:  Hazelwood3rd Division of Public Works   Melanchton Avenue off 5200 block of 2nd Avenue   412-422-6524  Homewood West2nd Division of Public Works   North Dallas Avenue at Hamilton Avenue   412-665-3609  Elliott5th Division of Public Works   1330 Hassler Street off Herschel &amp; Steuben streets (near Herschel Park)  412-937-3054  The nine other drop-off locations will be open 24 hours a day from December 26, 2019-January 26, 2020. They are:  FriendshipBaum Grove Parklet  400 Roup Avenue (off Fairmont Avenue)  Pittsburgh, PA 15232  DeutschtownSue Murray Swimming Pool Parking Lot Corner of Cedar and Stockton Avenues (enter off Stockton)  Pittsburgh, PA 15212  BrooklineBrookline Recreation Center  1400 Oakridge Street  Pittsburgh, PA 15226  Brighton HeightsJack Stack Parking Lot  600 Brighton Woods Road Pittsburgh, PA 15212  Squirrel Hill SouthProspect Drive Roundabout in Schenley Park  Pittsburgh, PA 15217  Highland ParkHighland Park Volleyball Court Parking Lot (approximately 151 Lake Drive)  Pittsburgh, PA 15206 OakwoodOakwood Park Ball Field at Noblestown Road  Pittsburgh, PA 15205  SouthsideSouthside Riverfront Park Lower Parking Lot  Pittsburgh, PA 15203  Middle Hill/ Terrace VillageKennard Park at Kirkpatrick and Reed Street  Pittsburgh, PA 15213 | 23/12/2019 09:19:36 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Monday, December 23, 2019 | Presenting Proclamation to Mary Jo Dowling for Gingerbread City-City BuildingTime: 11 a.m.Location: Mayor's Conference Room, City-County BuildingMeeting with Public Safety Director Wendell Hissrich and Police Chief Scott SchubertTime: 1 p.m.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County BuildingMeeting with Michael BlumTime: 2 p.m.Interview with Bob Bauder of the Tribune-ReviewTime: 3 p.m.Location: Office of the Mayor, City-County Building | 23/12/2019 08:20:12 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Tuesday and Wednesday, December 24-25, 2019 | No public events scheduled | 24/12/2019 08:51:45 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Thursday, December 26, 2019 | Lighting of City-County Building MenorahTime: 4:30 p.m.Location: City-County Building, 414 Grant Street | 26/12/2019 09:39:56 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Friday, December 27, 2019 | No public events scheduled | 27/12/2019 10:00:31 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Saturday and Sunday, December 28-29, 2019 | No public events scheduled | 28/12/2019 11:07:51 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Monday, December 30, 2019 | No public events scheduled | 30/12/2019 09:46:14 |
| Mayor William Peduto's Public Schedule - Tuesday, December 31, 2019 | No public events scheduled | 31/12/2019 10:52:37 |
| No results found. |
Back to top
Ready
jasujazumdinski