Skip to main content
opens in new tab or window
In This Section

Mayor
City Controller
City Council
Boards, Authorities, Commissions
Legal Services
Jobs
Finance &amp; Budget  - Campaign Finances
Dog Licenses
Fee Schedule
Management &amp; Budget    - About Office of Management and Budget
Budgets and Reports
Procurement
Budget Engagement
Grants Office
Fleet Operations
OMB Contacts
Community Development

New Business Registration
Pilot Home Buying Program
Real Estate
Taxes
Contacts &amp; Information

Fleet Operations
The City of Pittsburgh operates an average of 1,100 vehicles, boats, and trailers which are purchased and owned by the Equipment Leasing Authority and maintained by First Vehicle Services at the City owned garage in the Strip District. As new vehicles are added to the fleet, retired vehicles are decommissioned and sold on the City's online auction.
The City utilizes an average of 275 Public Works maintenance trucks and trailers, 48 refuse trucks, 24 recycling trucks, 65 ambulance and rescue units, 60 fire trucks, and 250 Police patrol units.
The goal of Fleet Operations is to provide safe, dependable, cost effective equipment, and furnish quality vehicle maintenance services to City departments.
Services include:

Fleet Procurement: Annual procurement of fleet replacements including the development of exact specifications
Equipment Management System: Software program that provides the vital information needed to efficiently operate the City's fleet, including electronic and hard copy reporting.
Automated Fuel Dispensing: For City equipment and other designated entities, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.
Mansfield Fuel Card Management: Voyager fuel cards are available for Public Safety vehicles who may require the use of a public fueling stations. Accounts are managed through the Mansfield FuelNet online management tool.
Motor Pool Management: Furnished to meet agencies special needs in providing services to their customers
Preventive Maintenance Program: Conforming to Original Equipment Manufacturers standards
Roadside Assistance &amp; Towing: 24 hours a day, 7 days a week
Vehicle Maintenance: General hours of operation are from 7:00AM – 7:30PM, Monday through Friday. Emergency service callouts are available 24 hours per day, 365 days per year.
Warranty Services: Available for many of the Original Equipment Manufacturers
Online Auctions: When equipment owned by the City of Pittsburgh has run its useful life for the City, it is auctioned online through a partnership with one of two online auction services, GovDeals and GovPlanet. Assets ranging from desks and filing cabinets, to vehicles and heavy equipment are auctioned off as they are decommissioned.

last updated: 04/22/2025
Back to top
Ready
jasujazumdinski