Skip to main content
opens in new tab or window
Enacting Strategic Investment and Maintenance Plan for PS, PW, and PFs
Published on June 09, 2015
Pittsburgh, PA (June 9, 2015) - Mayor William Peduto issued an executive order today enacting a long-term, strategic investment and maintenance plan for city owned facilities, as part of the City's comprehensive fixed asset management system. The Mayor's plan is to address critical maintenance, bring all public safety, public works, and parks facilities to complete repair within ten years, and develop a recurring capital maintenance program for the next 40 years.
The order is consistent with recommendations of the Mayor's transition team and the Act 47 amended recovery plan. Under the Mayor's order, the city will invest an additional $1.6 million in unspent capital funds into critical facility improvements this year.
"Pittsburghers deserve clean, safe and functional public facilities, as do our employees who work in these buildings day in and day out, said Mayor Peduto. We are serious about investing in our neighborhoods, and we invite others to invest alongside us, whether they be families looking for a new home or developers looking for the next project."
The plan identifies three phases of work. In Phase I, the Office and Management and Budget, after a year of consolidating and supplementing existing inspection data, identified a targeted list of critical infrastructure needs in city facilities that will be repaired this summer. Phase II, already underway, will continue and include an evaluation of the use and purpose of existing facilities, guided by community input, resulting in a plan to expand or repurpose the city';s current facility network to better fit its needs, including exploring partnerships with community organizations to better utilize our assets. Phase III will commence immediately and will include the creation of a 40 year maintenance schedule, using a fixed asset management system, to ensure that the City never falls behind on its facility maintenance needs again.
This work will be community driven and will prioritize energy efficiency, savings, and preserving important neighborhood assets. The City will seek technology upgrades at city facilities where feasible, and will redraw its internal processes to ensure that work is completed in a timely fashion and maintenance needs are not deferred for years.
Additionally, the Office of Management and Budget will craft legislation establishing a trust fund to hold the proceeds of any sale of City facilities that occurs as part of the plan. Funds will be dedicated to the further preservation of existing City facilities.
The additional $1.6 million allocation is in addition to more than $3.5 million previously budgeted for facility improvements, bringing the facilities improvement total to $5.1 million for 2015. Increased investments in these facilities will ramp up in coming years to meet public demand for these facilities. This year' facilities maintenance budget will be one of the largest in the last decade, and will lead to long term savings by addressing critical needs before they worsen.
Facility work to be conducted this summer includes repairs at fire, police, and EMS stations across the city, and accessibility upgrades for senior and community centers. Some city facilities to receive critical repairs this summer are partially unusable because of other chronic maintenance problems. A City Facilities Map(PDF, 649KB) and list of facilities with critical maintenance issues(PDF, 183KB) that will be addressed this summer are included.
Buildings are but one part of the fixed asset management system. The investment in public safety, public works, and parks facilities is only one piece of a larger plan for city property improvements. The Mayor has charged OMB and other city departments with developing similar plans for city streets and sidewalks; for the city's vehicle fleet; for city owned walls, steps and fences; for urban forests and hillsides; and for public spaces and monuments, among other assets.
When we started this process last year we found that the city lacked a single reliable list of properties that we own, said Kevin Acklin, Chief of Staff to the Mayor. Our residents and employees deserve a comprehensive plan for addressing long overdue city facility improvements. What you see today is the result of several months of research, inspection of city buildings, and planning--and we are just getting started.
View a copy of the Executive Order(PDF, 333KB).
Tagged as:

Executive Orders

Back to top
Ready
jasujazumdinski