Skip to main content
opens in new tab or window
In This Section

City Planning
Mobility and Infrastructure
Permits, Licenses, and Inspections  - Applications &amp; Forms
OneStopPGH
Permits
Licenses
Bulletins
Community Resources
Code Enforcement
Condemned Buildings
PLI Fees
Building Codes
Appeals    - Board of Appeals
Board of License and Inspection Review

PLI Contacts
Announcements
Registrations
Digital Equity In Pittsburgh
Small Business Resources
Public Works
Zoning
Geographic Information Systems, Mapping &amp; Open Data
Procurement
PGH Lab
Sustainability

Appeals
All appeal applications  must be made electronically through the online OneStopPGH system. If you do not have a OneStopPGH account, please create an account. To connect to legacy permit or license information, please contact PLIAppTech@pittsburghpa.gov to obtain pin number. Customers can create a OneStopPGH portal account using this pin number.
Customers may reach out to PLIAppTech@pittsburghpa.gov for general permit and license application assistance.
Board of Appeals "BOA"
Under the provisions of the Pennsylvania Uniform Construction Code, a property owner or their agent, may file a variance request with the Board of Appeals. The Board accepts variances for the following reasons:

The true intent of the Uniform Construction Code was incorrectly interpreted.
The provisions of the Uniform Construction Code do not apply.
An equivalent form of construction is to be used.

Click here to get an application, see meeting schedule and past agendas.

jasujazumdinski
Board of License and Inspection Review "LIR"
The purpose of the Board of License and Inspection Review ("LIR Board") is to ensure independent oversight to the license and property maintenance inspection determinations reached by the PLI's License Officer and Code Officials.
The LIR Board adjudicates appeals of orders, decisions, or determinations related to Title VII, Business Licensing, and Title X, Building, Chapter 1004, International Property Maintenance Code ("IPMC"), of the Pittsburgh City Code. After hearing the appeal, the LIR Board will affirm, modify, reverse, vacate, or revoke the notice, order, or action from which an appeal is taken.
Visit the LIR Board web page to get an application, read the bylaws and rules and regulations, see current members, and get meeting dates and agendas.

Zoning Board of Adjustment "ZBA"
PLI is the enforcement arm for the Zoning and Development Review Division of City Planning. Although you may receive the Notice of Violation from our Department, all appeals for zoning violations should go through the Zoning Board of Adjustment. Please visit their website for more information.
last updated: 03/12/2025
Back to top
Ready
jasujazumdinski