Skip to main content
opens in new tab or window
Bob Charland, District 3
Councilmember

Telephone412-255-2130

Introduction
Council District 3 is comprised of 12 neighborhoods, each with its own unique character and history. From bustling business districts to quiet residential enclaves, District 3 offers residents and visitors a true slice of Pittsburgh.
Our Neighborhoods
Allentown(show below)
Incorporated in 1870 and annexed by the City of Pittsburgh in 1872, Allentown was originally a hub for the entrepreneurial German immigrant community. Today beautiful Allentown looks a little different. Having remained a bustling place after all these years, it features some of Pittsburgh’s best restaurants, a heavy-metal coffee shop, art spaces and phenomenal views of the Downtown skyline.
Arlington(show below)
A welcoming and tight-knit community, Arlington residents work hard to ensure their neighborhood continues to thrive. Arlington’s Henry Kaufman Center serves as the neighborhood’s hub, where on any given night one might attend an awards dinner, an after-school reading, various recreation programs, and so much more. For those that love the outdoors, the South Side Park, Bill Soltz Field, and the Arlington “Fort” Park are great places to explore.
Arlington Heights(show below)
Arlington Heights is a small neighborhood in the eastern Hilltop area of Pittsburgh that is completely surrounded by the larger neighborhoods of Arlington and the South Side Slopes. Arlington Heights was originally composed of 660 housing units built by the Housing Authority of Pittsburgh in 1942 to house war workers who lived to far from their jobs or were living away from their families.
Beltzhoover(show below)
Green and residential, Beltzhoover is a family centered neighborhood home to some of the city’s oldest real estate, including the Melchor Beltzhoover homestead which was built in the 18th century. Nestled against McKinley Park, Beltzhoover has access to some of the city’s best trails and park amenities.
Central Oakland(show below)
A unique mix of long-time residents and students from the University of Pittsburgh and Carnegie Mellon University call the dynamic neighborhood of Central Oakland their home. The neighborhood offers great food choices and an infinite variety of entertainment and educational opportunities. With the Carnegie Museum of Art and Natural History, as well as the Carnegie Library Main Branch at the center, there is always an opportunity to experience something new.
Knoxville(show below)
Knoxville has long been a desirable location for Pittsburgh residents. Once the fruit farm of Jeremiah Knox, brother-in-law to the son of Beltzhoover’s founder, the area became desirable yet again during the height of Pittsburgh’s steel industry. The neighborhood sits on the second ridge from the Mon River, shielding its residents from the pollution coming from the old South Side Mills. These days Knoxville is still primarily a residential area, with one of the highest concentration of school age children in the City.
Mt Oliver(show below)
Unlike the Mt. Oliver borough, with which Mt. Oliver Neighborhood shares its name, our Mt. Oliver Neighborhood is very much part of city proper. Home to around 600 residents, this highly residential neighborhood has a small town feel in the heart of the city.
Mt Washington(show below)
District 3 includes a small residential chunk of historic Mt. Washington that borders Emerald View Park and Allentown and Beltzhoover.
Oakcliffe(show below)
This tiny sliver of southwest Oakland is comprised of just 5 streets. Cared for by the Oakland Community Organization, one of the oldest community organizations in Oakland, this is a place where neighbors know each other’s name.
South Side Flats(show below)
South Side Flats is widely considered to be Pittsburgh’s epicenter of nightlife and entertainment. In the Flats you can find great restaurants and shops and live music in abundance. If architecture and history are your thing, be sure to stop by East Carson Street, Pittsburgh’s largest concentration of 19th century homes.
South Side Slopes(show below)
The South Side Slopes encompass Pittsburgh’s infamously steep hills along the Monongahela River from Josephine Street to the Liberty Bridge. Residents of this neighborhood enjoy panoramic views of the Downtown Area, and far beyond on a clear day, as well as South Side Park with its hiking trails and orchard patch.n.
South Oakland(show below)
South Oakland, with its boundaries marked by the Monongahela River, Boulevard of the Allies, and the western bank of Junction Hollow, is Pittsburgh’s triangular shaped gem. Known for being the birthplace of Andy Warhol and Dan Marino, South Oakland is also home to Magee-Women’s Hospital, one of leading hospitals for women’s health in the nation.
St Clair(show below)
St. Clair is perhaps district 3’s most unique neighborhood, being entirely and exclusively a residential community. The residents stay active and connected by maintaining an active tenant council, athletic association and attending the Lighthouse Cathedral Church.

Councilperson Bob Charland
Contacts
Feedback
Current Initiatives
Community Groups and Events Calendar
Newsletter and other Resources
last updated: 31/07/2025
Back to top
Ready
jasujazumdinski