opens in new tab or window
Police
Pause
Previous
Next
Press left and right keys to move between slides.
1
2
3
4
5
Police Chief Larry Scirotto explains recent operational changes and what the moves mean for you and your safety.
Call 911 or visit any City of Pittsburgh police station and file a report in person.
Join the Pittsburgh Bureau of Police. We look forward to having you join our team
Are you concerned that you or someone you know is in an abusive relationship? Find resources in the Domestic Violence Resource Guide.
Learn more about the Citizen's Police Academy and Student Police Academy, a free opportunity to become closely acquainted with the roles and responsibilities of the Police Bureau.
Pittsburgh Police Cares
What is Pittsburgh Police Cares?
Pittsburgh Police Cares is an online resource to help community members connect directly with Pittsburgh Police officers who work in their neighborhoods.
By visiting the Pittsburgh Police Cares link for your police zone, you can find upcoming community events and alerts, monthly and annual crime statistics, and the names and email addresses for the officers in each sector of the zone so you can ask for them by name.
This allows residents and community members to connect with officers on a first name basis to request a police presence for events, report crimes or disturbances, and ultimately create stronger community/police partnerships built on familiarity and mutual trust.
Zone 1 Cares
Zone 2 Cares
Zone 3 Cares
Zone 4 Cares
Zone 5 Cares
Zone 6 Cares
Police Zones
Find a map of Pittsburgh's Police Zones
Police Officer Recruitment
Welcome to the City of Pittsburgh Police Recruitment website!
File a Police Report
Find ways to file a Police Report within the City of Pittsburgh.
Submit a Tip
This site is not monitored 24/7. For criminal activity or crimes in progress, please call 911.
Submit a Silent Complaint
Compliment an Officer
Compliment an Officer Form
Police Data Portal
View crime mapping and the Pittsburgh Bureau of Police Violent Crimes dashboard.
Branches
Find additional information about our Branches: Operations, Investigations, Administration, and Special Deployment Division (SDD)
About Police
Learn about our mission, the history of the badge, policies & procedures, and more.
jasujazumdinski
Connect
X (Twitter)
last updated: 06/30/2025
Back to top
Ready
Twitter Widget Iframe
jasujazumdinski