opens in new tab or window
In This Section
Mayor
City Controller
City Council
Boards, Authorities, Commissions
Legal Services
Jobs
Finance & Budget
Contacts & Information  - Frequently Requested Numbers
City Press Release Archive
City Channel Pittsburgh
External Link Disclaimer
At various locations within the set of documents that are accessible over the Internet/World Wide Web and electronically "linked," and that belong to or were created by or with the permission of the City of Pittsburgh ("City"), however referred to (such as the City's "Internet homepage," "Web page," etc.), viewers or readers may access the Internet/World Wide Web "addresses" of various other organizations, or individuals not otherwise related to or associated with the City of Pittsburgh. Such "live" or "hot" connections ("links") to "external" Internet sites provide the ability to access material at those external sites that belongs to or is sponsored by those institutions, organizations, or individuals.
The ability to hot link to external sites is provided by the City of Pittsburgh strictly as a service to those accessing the City of Pittsburgh web site. Such external Internet sites contain information created, collected, published, maintained, posted or otherwise made available by institutions, organizations, or individuals independent of the City of Pittsburgh. The City of Pittsburgh does not endorse, approve, certify, review, or otherwise control in any way those external sites or the material contained therein. The City of Pittsburgh does not guarantee the accuracy, completeness, usefulness, timeliness, or correct sequencing of any information or data located at or contained in such sites. Use of any information or data obtained from such sites is strictly voluntary, and is the sole risk and responsibility of the viewer or reader. Reliance on any such information or data should be undertaken only after an independent review of its accuracy, completeness, usefulness, timeliness, or correct sequencing.
Any trade marks, trade names, or service marks mentioned herein remain the property of their respective owners. At any linked external site, reference to any specific commercial product, service, or process whether by trademark, trade name, service mark, or otherwise does not constitute or imply in any way endorsement, recommendation or other favorable consideration by the City of Pittsburgh. Any such reference also does not necessarily signify that such reference has been permitted by the owner(s) or licensee(s) of such trademark, trade name, service mark, or by the referenced manufacturer, distributor, or otherwise.
Back to top
Ready
jasujazumdinski