opens in new tab or window
In This Section
Mayor
City Controller
City Council  - Districts
Clerk's Office    - What is a City Clerk?
Kimberly Clark-Baskin, CMC, City Clerk
City Clerk Functions
City Ordinances
Council Meeting Schedule
Rules of Council
Legislative Information Center
Records Management Division
Inter-municipal Liquor License Application
Home Rule Charter
Procedures
Business Processes
City Clerk Contacts
Clerk News
Clerk's Press Releases
Neighborhoods & Wards
Legislative Information
Council Budget Office
City Council Contacts
Boards, Authorities, Commissions
Legal Services
Jobs
Finance & Budget
Contacts & Information
Business Processes
The City Clerk’s Office documents seven primary business processes:
Meeting Notices
Legislative Meeting Minutes
Publication of Weekly Minutes
Indexing and Publication of Annual Municipal Record Book
Standing Committees Meeting Minutes
Public Hearing Minutes
Legislative Process (Ordinances and Resolutions)
Minutes
The City Clerk's Office is responsible for recording minutes for Legislative and Standing Committee Meetings, as well as Public Hearings. Each of these sessions is recorded by an on-site Stenographer. Minutes are also recorded verbatim and transcribed for publication. These minutes are kept on file in the City Clerk's office and copies are made available upon request. The minutes are also kept in a common computer drive as "read-only' documents for electronic researching purposes.
Obtain minutes for any Council meeting session, or call the Clerk’s Office and request a copy of the minutes you want. A 25 cent fee will be applied to all requested hard copies.
jasujazumdinski
Production of Weekly Minutes And Production of Annual Municipal Record Books
For the purpose of continuity, and because of their interdependency, these processes are combined. The minutes of the Legislative Meetings of Council are published in separate weekly minute books. Each Member of Council receives a copy of these minutes, which are approved at the next Legislative Meeting of Council. Additional copies of these books are on file in the City Clerk's Office for public reference and distribution.
These weekly minute books are then used to compile an index for the publication of the Annual Municipal Record book. This book is divided into two parts. The first part is called The Minutes of the Proceedings, which contains, verbatim, all dialogue from Council's Legislative Meetings. This dialogue is indexed by various categories for reference at the beginning of the book. The second part is called Ordinances and Resolutions, which contains all legislation passed in Council for that respective year.
last updated: 04/22/2025
Back to top
Ready
jasujazumdinski