opens in new tab or window
Commissions and Boards
These links change page section content below
Overview
Contextual Design Advisory Panel (CDAP)
Historic Review Commission (HRC)
Naming Commission
Planning Commission (PC)
Public Art & Civic Design Commission (PACD)
Zoning Board of Adjustment (ZBA)
1. Overview
Learn more about City Planning's Boards, Commissions, and Panels
The Department of City Planning (DCP) facilitates a number of Boards, Commissions, Panels, and Development Activities Meetings (DAMs) which review zoning variances and elements of development, design, public art, and historic preservation.
For additional information on a Board, Commission, or Panel, such as appointed members or past meeting minutes, please choose from the above table of contents or navigate through sections at the bottom of this page.
jasujazumdinski
2. Contextual Design Advisory Panel (CDAP)
CDAP meets every other Tuesday, alternating with Planning Commission
The Contextual Design Advisory Panel (CDAP) is comprised of eight members with expertise in the physical development of the City. The panel's mission is to promote quality of life in the City of Pittsburgh. CDAP achieves its mission through professional, voluntary design assistance to maximize the economic, civic, contextual, and aesthetic value of new development projects impacting the public realm. To fulfill this mission, CDAP advises the Department of City Planning by reviewing and providing design guidance on selected, higher profile projects throughout the City.
CDAP is an advisory panel, not a commission. Together with staff design review, the panel works to resolve design issues through professional peer critique before a Commission conducts its review. This frees the the Commission to focus on its responsibility of assuring that new developments are consistent with the overall planning objectives of the City. Some examples of these core considerations are:
The extent to which each development proposal addresses successful design, public space enhancement, context sensitivity and sustainable urbanism.
Ensuring that projects feature well designed buildings and landscapes that engage both users and the streetscape. Buildings should also make appropriate connections to adjacent sites and to the larger neighborhood.
The use of sustainable building materials and designs which consider the longer-term impact and use of a single project.
CDAP Members(show below)
Contextual Design Advisory Panel Members
Eric Booth, AIA
Bruce Chan
Ryan Indovina, RA, LEED AP
Greg LaForest, AIA, LEED AP
Cassandra Osterman, AIA
Peter Quintanilla
Bob Reppe
Claudia Saladin, ASLA, LEED AP
CDAP's Role in City Planning Design Review Process(show below)
Design review is a collaborative process between City Planning and project's design team. Staff Design Review is the initial design review phase using information submitted by the applicant. City Planning staff develop a set of Urban Design Targets, which are tailored to the development proposal, the unique site conditions, and the neighborhood and context of the development. Staff work with the applicant to address the Urban Design Targets and to satisfy design-related zoning requirements.
During the initial Staff Design Review phase, City Planning staff will recommend projects for review by CDAP. CDAP review is voluntary, but highly recommended for some projects. The applicant will update the design to address the Urban Design Targets and incorporate the staff’s comments, in preparation for the CDAP meeting. At the meeting, the project representative presents and discusses the project, surrounding context, and design concepts. CDAP members ask questions and make recommendations to the project representative.
Projects Reviewed by CDAP(show below)
Projects that CDAP may review range from building additions to multi-parcel developments. Staff evaluates each project and its surrounding context and determines whether CDAP review would be beneficial. This determination will be made early in the review process. The criteria considered include the size of the project, complexity of the design context, and impact on the public realm. Generally, CDAP reviews:
Project Development Plans
Final Land Development Plans
Projects undergoing Site Plan Review
CDAP Meeting Material(show below)
Revisions to any items previously submitted for Design Review
Site plan showing proposed project and surrounding context
Landscape plan showing surrounding context and proposed planting list
Building elevations showing surrounding context and proposed materials
When applicable, building sections showing site context
Perspective views and renderings showing project in surrounding context
Perspective views and renderings showing pedestrian context and sidewalk-level views
Items that address Staff Design Review comments and Urban Design Targets
Meeting Format(show below)
The most common format used for CDAP meetings follows the below outline. City Planning staff will introduce the Panel, provide a brief project introduction, and then refer to the project team for a presentation. The presentation should include a project outline and discuss context and design-related concepts and goals. The presentation should focus on design review and does not need to discuss Zoning or DOMI related reviews unless related to the overall design goals.
Project introduction by City Planning staff (5 minutes)
Project presentation by project representative (10-15 minutes)
General Panel discussion (30-40 minutes)
After the CDAP meeting, City Planning staff sends a summary of the comments to the applicant. The applicant follows up with staff and responds to the comments by updating the design accordingly. City Planning staff will summarize the Design Review, including comments from CDAP and subsequent revisions, to convey design feedback and guidance to the Planning Commission, as the final approval determines.
In some situations, projects will be reviewed twice by CDAP. At the second meeting, the project representative presents changes since the last meeting and provides additional visuals on the project as the design has developed. The second meeting may not be necessary for projects that meet the design objectives in the first full CDAP meeting.
Workshops(show below)
In addition to the regularly scheduled CDAP meetings, CDAP also holds workshops. Less like a formal review, a workshop is a collaborative meeting. The project representative brings their project goals and current design to the panel members who provide design guidance. CDAP can help the project representative meet their objectives while helping to create successful urban spaces.
To contact CDAP via email, please email pacd@pittsburghpa.gov
CDAP Rules and Procedures
jasujazumdinski
3. Historic Review Commission (HRC)
The Historic Review Commission meets on the first Wednesday of each month. Meetings starts at 1:00 PM.
The Historic Review Commission (HRC) provides guidance to those seeking to conduct exterior work on historic buildings in the city. The Historic Review Commission is comprised of seven members appointed by the Mayor. The membership of the commission must include an architect, a preservationist, a realtor, a building inspector, and a planner.
The Historic Review Commission has control over any proposed new construction or demolition within a historic district and exterior work to a historic landmark. The review process begins when an owner decides to work to the building. To start an application, visit City Planning's Historic Preservation page.
HRC Members(show below)
Historic Review Commission Members
Lucia M. Aguirre, Chairperson
Matthew Falcone
Dave Green, Secretary, Director of the Department of Permits, Licenses and Inspections
James Hill
Katie K. Reed, Department of City Planning
Karen Loysen
Richard Snipe
Past Meeting Minutes(show below)
Current year meeting agenda, presentations, and minutes are available on the City Planning Public Notices and Meeting Calendar.
For previous year's meeting presentations, please visit City Planning's YouTube page. You may also order a transcript of a meeting by calling Network Deposition Services at 412-281-7908. Network Deposition Services will charge a fee to access the transcript. Please have the meeting date available.
City Planning YouTube page
City Planning Calendar