Skip to main content
opens in new tab or window
In This Section

City Planning
Mobility and Infrastructure
Permits, Licenses, and Inspections  - Applications &amp; Forms
OneStopPGH
Permits
Licenses    - Business Licenses
Contractor Licenses
Trade Licenses

Bulletins
Community Resources
Code Enforcement
Condemned Buildings
PLI Fees
Building Codes
Appeals
PLI Contacts
Announcements
Registrations
Digital Equity In Pittsburgh
Small Business Resources
Public Works
Zoning
Geographic Information Systems, Mapping &amp; Open Data
Procurement
PGH Lab
Sustainability

Contractor Licenses

Watch our Community Forum on Trade Licenses
The Department of Permits, Licenses, and Inspections issues the following Contractor Licenses:

General Contractor License
Sign Contractor License

Additional Information
For all contractor licenses, grace periods will begin at the expiration of a license and continue for sixty (60) days. If the licenses is not renewed within thirty (30) days after the expiration date, per the fee schedule, a late fee is incurred on the thirty-first (31st) day following the expiration date. If the license is not renewed within sixty (60) days after the expiration date, then on the sixty-first (61st) day following the expiration date, the license automatically lapses. All licensees that allow their license to lapse must apply for a new license and meet all new license requirements at the time of that new application. Permits related to the licensed activity will be suspended until a valid and current trade license is connected to the permitted work.
All licenses expire 365 days from the date of issuance.
All applications must be fully completed to be processed. An incomplete application will be returned to the applicant.
jasujazumdinski
Fee Schedule
All Department of Permits, Licenses, and Inspections fees change annually. Please consult the Current Fee Schedule below.
The permit and license fees for the Department of Permits, Licenses, and Inspections undergo periodic adjustments. Please consult the current year Fee Schedule.
Fee Schedule
Note once a permit or license has been issued, refunds are not provided.
last updated: 06/30/2025
Back to top
Ready
jasujazumdinski