Skip to main content
opens in new tab or window
In This Section

City Planning  - About City Planning    - Key Contacts
City Planning Meeting Calendar
City Planning Public Notices
Commissions and Boards
Historic Preservation Program
Public Art Program
Neighborhood Planning
Master &amp; Neighborhood Plans
City Planning Projects
City Planning Programs
Development Review Process Guides
Mobility and Infrastructure
Permits, Licenses, and Inspections
Digital Equity In Pittsburgh
Small Business Resources
Public Works
Zoning
Geographic Information Systems, Mapping &amp; Open Data
Procurement
PGH Lab
Sustainability

jasujazumdinski
About City Planning
The Department of City Planning works with partners to plan and deliver a vision for the City’s future grounded in a Just Transition
We work to create and maintain an orderly, timely, environmentally-sustainable, and consistent approach to land use and development within the City. To achieve this end, Planning works with communities, civic organizations and public entities to develop long-term plans to sustain and revitalize a thriving city of neighborhoods for the people who live, work, learn and visit here.
Mission(show below)
The Department of City Planning is a convener of residents, communities, civic organizations, commissions, and public entities, and works with these partners to plan and deliver a vision for the City’s future grounded in a Just Transition. The Department works at the intersection of climate change, racial justice, and social equity to ensure healthy, safe and vibrant neighborhoods for all residents.
Because the built environment plays a vital role in the lives of Pittsburgh residents, City Planning incorporates policies and activities that promote sustainability, climate resilience, design justice, arts and culture, housing affordability and economic opportunity in the development and implementation of the City’s Comprehensive Plan, neighborhood plans, land use policies, zoning regulations, approval of development projects, and coordination of community development programs and partnerships.
The Department is committed to focusing core planning activities to prioritize neighborhoods that have been harmed by past planning policies and practices which have contributed to existing racial and economic inequities throughout the city. This effort requires deeper engagement and additional resources in the development of plans and policies, working to remove barriers to the Department’s services, and by recognizing a more holistic set of metrics to advance the wellbeing of our diverse communities.
The Department of City Planning recognizes the power of residents to transform their neighborhoods and calls on us to use that power to shape the future of Pittsburgh.
Integrated Planning Division(show below)
The Integrated Planning division manages data, develops plans, and informs policies related to food access, vacant land, housing, mobility, and economic opportunity.
The Integrated Planning division leads research, special initiatives, and cross-agency collaborations focused on integrating strategic policy areas that ensure holistic outcomes with a focus on communities who have been historically under-served and marginalized by planning in Pittsburgh. The division produces trends analyses and special “future of cities” reports and convenings for a citywide audience. Integrated Planning also partners with City’s innovation-centric departments and units to establish shared goals for innovation-focused partnerships and pilots.
Public Realm Division(show below)
The Public Realm division proactively engages with and supports communities who face the steepest challenges in accessing civic design opportunities, historic preservation resources, and public art initiatives.
The Public Realm division leads development and implementation of policies, programs, and partnerships that make visible in the City’s public realm the art, cultures, traditions, and histories of Pittsburgh’s diverse communities. The division achieves this by building their awareness and capacity to participate, including their ability to incorporate into neighborhood plans and the City’s Comprehensive Plan strategies that make Pittsburgh a place where every community belongs. The Public Realm division ensures the Comprehensive Plan informs updates to citywide urban design guidelines. The division is responsible for staffing the Historic Review Commission, Public Art and Civic Design Commission, and the Contextual Design Advisory Panel.
Strategic Planning Division(show below)
Strategic Planning is responsible for supporting residents — particularly historically marginalized communities— in understanding the tools at their disposal to play meaningful roles in the planning and implementation of holistic policies, programs, and partnerships.
The Strategic Planning division leads coordination and development of the City’s Comprehensive Plan –a resource that establishes a shared vision and roadmap among communities, civic organizations, and public entities–to steer the physical, environmental, and economic transformation of Pittsburgh and its neighborhoods towards a sustainable community and inclusive economy.
Sustainability &amp; Resilience Division(show below)
Sustainability and Resilience advances Pittsburgh’s vision for environmental protection, climate change mitigation, adaptation, and strategies to address the impacts of climate hazards on vulnerable residents and communities.
The Sustainability and Resilience division leads interdepartmental coordination and implementation of the City’s Climate Action Plan. The division oversees relevant compliance with climate and environmental regulation and codes, including developing and maintaining performance standards. Sustainability and Resilience partners with other public entities to incorporate high performance standards for City operations. The division also collaborates with residents to inform about innovative climate investments across energy, waste, storm water, and parks and open space that are incorporated into neighborhood plans and the City’s Comprehensive Plan. Sustainability and Resilience supports the capacity of community-based organizations in Pittsburgh’s environmental justice communities to advance climate goals, access historic federal climate investments, steer the equitable distribution of vital infrastructure improvements, and minimize unwanted burdens in those communities.
Zoning &amp; Development Review Division(show below)
Zoning and Development Review is responsible for facilitating an understanding of the land use and regulatory needs of communities that have been historically harmed by past planning actions.
The division leads development and management of land use policies to align with the City’s goals of catalyzing more affordable, inclusive, resilient, and vibrant neighborhoods. Zoning and Development Review is responsible for facilitating an understanding of the land use and regulatory needs of communities that have been historically harmed by past planning actions. The Division promotes high quality, sustainable, and efficient development by coordinating regulatory bodies to oversee a consistent, transparent, and predictable regulatory environment and customer service experience. Zoning and Development Review administers the City’s zoning code and supports development review, including staffing the Planning Commission and Zoning Board of Adjustment.

Key Contacts
last updated: 08/21/2025
Back to top
Ready
jasujazumdinski