Skip to main content
opens in new tab or window
In This Section

City Planning
Mobility and Infrastructure
Permits, Licenses, and Inspections  - Applications &amp; Forms
OneStopPGH
Permits
Licenses    - Business Licenses
Contractor Licenses
Trade Licenses

Bulletins
Community Resources
Code Enforcement
Condemned Buildings
PLI Fees
Building Codes
Appeals
PLI Contacts
Announcements
Registrations
Digital Equity In Pittsburgh
Small Business Resources
Public Works
Zoning
Geographic Information Systems, Mapping &amp; Open Data
Procurement
PGH Lab
Sustainability

Licenses
The Department of Permits, Licenses, and Inspections issues licenses for the following activities:

Contractor Licenses
General Contractors
Sign Contractors
Customers applying for a new or renewal General Contractor license must provide their firm's EPA Lead, Renovation, Repair, and Painting (RRP) certification. The RRP certification is valid for 5 years. For more information about the RRP certification and how to obtain one, please visit the EPA's website.
Trade Licenses
Electrical Trade
HVAC Trade
Stationary Power Engineer
Fire Suppression Trade
Trade License holders are required to obtain eight (8) continuing education units (CEUs) annually to be eligible for renewal. Review a list of accepted Continuing Education Units for Trade License Holders(PDF, 57KB) and when they must be completed.
Business Licenses
Bed &amp; Breakfast
Antique or Secondhand Dealers (includes Junk Dealer &amp; Pawnbroker licenses)
Parking Lot
Towing
Mobile Vehicle Vendors
Mobile Peddler
Stationary Vendors
One-Day Solicitation (Tag Day)
Ticket Reselling

Wondering how much your License will cost? All Department of Permits, Licenses, and Inspections fees change annually. Please consult the Current Fee Schedule below.
jasujazumdinski
Fee Schedule
Current Fee Schedule
Note once a permit or license has been issued, refunds are not provided.
Helpful Reminders

Effective November 15th, 2018, PLI adopted the Licensing Rules &amp; Regulations(PDF, 626KB). (Updated May 29th, 2022)
Thank you all who provided comments to the draft Licensing Rules &amp; Regulations. View our responses to the comments provided(PDF, 140KB).
All licenses expire 365 days from the date of issuance. License holders who allow their license to expire will be charged a late fee after the date of expiration. Late fee grace periods are provided for all trade and contractor licenses. Please see the links above for more information on your license type and late fees.
The format of all required Certificates of Insurance documents should be the following. COIs not formatted in this way will not be accepted:
The name insured should be the owner’s name and the business/operating name should be shown under “DBA,” if applicable.
Tax compliance and COI should have exactly the same owner’s name and DBA operating/business name.
The address in the Certificate Holder field should read:
City of Pittsburgh
412 Blvd of the Allies
PLI, Floor 3
Pittsburgh, PA 15219

Contact Us
Have a question for us? You can reach the Department of Permits, Licenses, and Inspections at pliapptech@pittsburghpa.gov or 412-255-2175. PLI staff are also available via live chat on the OneStopPGH website from 9:00AM-3:00PM, Monday through Friday.
last updated: 06/30/2025
Back to top
Ready
jasujazumdinski