Skip to main content
opens in new tab or window
In This Section

City Planning
Mobility and Infrastructure
Permits, Licenses, and Inspections  - Applications &amp; Forms
OneStopPGH
Permits    - About PLI
Residential Permits
Commercial Permits
Permit Process
Work Not Requiring a Permit

Licenses
Bulletins
Community Resources
Code Enforcement
Condemned Buildings
PLI Fees
Building Codes
Appeals
PLI Contacts
Announcements
Registrations
Digital Equity In Pittsburgh
Small Business Resources
Public Works
Zoning
Geographic Information Systems, Mapping &amp; Open Data
Procurement
PGH Lab
Sustainability

Mechanical Permit
Residential Mechanical Permits
A residential mechanical permit is required for the following work on a residential building or structure (single-family or two-family dwelling or associated accessory structure such as a garage)

Renovate and repair mechanical or fuel gas systems.
Extend or modify an existing mechanical or fuel gas system.
Installation of new mechanical or fuel gas systems.

Please see Permit Home for the definition of residential structures and work types. Please see Work Not Requiring A Permit for work that can be performed without a PLI permit. Please visit our Contacts page for the Construction Inspector's contact information.
New Construction Work Scopes
The new construction work type applies to the installation of systems in a new house. The applicant shall identify one or more of the following work scopes:

Exhaust System: installation of an exhaust system. This excludes work associated with an exhaust system related to commercial cooking hoods and smoke control systems.
Fuel Gas System: installation of a fuel gas system.
Hydronic System: installation of a hydronic system.
Heating/Ventilation System: installation of a heating and/or ventilation system. Installation of exterior equipment is not permitted under this work scope.
Mechanical Equipment - Exterior: installation of any type of exterior mechanical equipment serving any type of system.
Refrigeration System: installation of a refrigeration system.

jasujazumdinski
Addition / Alteration Work Scopes
The addition/alteration work type applies to the alteration of existing systems or installation of new systems in an existing house. The applicant shall identify one or more of the following work scopes:

Exhaust System: installation or modification of an exhaust system. Work associated with an exhaust system related to commercial cooking hoods and/or smoke control systems is not permitted under this work scope.
Fuel Gas System: installation or modification of a fuel gas system.
Hydronic System: installation or modification of a hydronic system.
Heating/Ventilation System: installation or modification of a heating and/or ventilation system. Installation of exterior equipment is not permitted under this work scope.
Mechanical Equipment - Exterior: installation of any type of exterior mechanical equipment serving any type of system.
Refrigeration System: installation or modification of a refrigeration system.
Emergency replacement of interior equipment: replacement of interior equipment condemned by PLI and/or associated with ventilation and/or heating systems required to maintain safe occupancy.
Emergency replacement of exterior equipment: replacement of exterior equipment condemned by PLI and/or associated with ventilation and/or heating systems required to maintain safe occupancy. Please note that a Zoning Development Review application may still be required.

Minor Alteration Work Scopes
The minor alteration work type applies to the alteration of existing systems in an existing house. The applicant shall identify one or more of the following work scopes:

Ductwork: modification of ductwork associated with an existing system. Installation of equipment is not permitted under this work scope.
Exhaust fans: replacement or installation of exhaust fans.
Hydronic piping: modification of hydronic piping. Installation of equipment is not permitted under this work scope.
Fuel Gas Piping: modification of fuel gas piping. Installation of equipment is not permitted under this work scope.

jasujazumdinski
Permit Process
The permit process consists of the following steps:

Application Submission
Application Review
Residential mechanical permits do not require submission of drawings for PLI.
Permit Issuance
Permit Inspections
Permit Completion

Please see Other Agency Coordination for processes related to other agencies that may relate to your permit scope. For residential mechanical permits:

Zoning Development Review application (ZDR) submission is required for the following:

Mechanical Equipment – Exterior work scope.

Development of a property in a regulated floodplain requires a PLI Floodplain permit.

last updated: 04/23/2025
Back to top
Ready
jasujazumdinski