Skip to main content
opens in new tab or window
In This Section

Parks
Pools
Events
Park Facilities
Special Events
Film &amp; Event Management  - Important Documents
Special Event &amp; Block Party Permitting
Film Permits
Special Events Committee
Public Event Calendar
Park Permits
About Parks

Film &amp; Event Management
Welcome to the Office of Film &amp; Event Management
The Office of Film &amp; Event Management (OFEM) is the official permitting authority for block parties, special events, first amendment activity, and film projects in the City of Pittsburgh. To support the city’s rapidly growing event &amp; film industry, the Office of Film &amp; Event Management has streamlined the permitting process for event organizers and film producers via efficient digital permitting. In addition to streamlining the permitting process for events &amp; film projects in the City of Pittsburgh, the Office of Film &amp; Event Management will also be responsible for the following:

Issuing permits to events and productions filming on public property in the City of Pittsburgh.
Facilitating communication between event organizers, film producers, and city departments and authorities.
Handling cost recovery efforts for City services related to event &amp; film needs.
Handling permitting for block-parties and community festivals in addition to special events and films.
Consulting on major and minor civic events within the City.

OFEM is tasked with receiving and vetting applications for small and large-scale events and film productions within the City of Pittsburgh as well as consulting with both film and event permit applicants to ensure that industry standards, safety regulations, and city policies are followed and met. Via the Special Events Committee, OFEM also works with all City departments to ensure proper planning, coordination, and execution of all events and film projects. Additionally, it will ensure that events and film productions do not negatively impact the City’s operations and remain positive assets to the City and its residents.

jasujazumdinski
New Permit Management System Launch!

Beginning in the spring of 2024, the Office of Film &amp; Event Management (OFEM) launched a new permit management system, Eproval! With the launch of this new system came a new two-phase application approach to special event permitting. The new process allowed event organizers to secure their preferred venue first, and then focus on the details of the event. Previously, applicants had to wait until many details of their event were in place before they could apply. Now, applicants could secure their venue and dates, then move forward with hiring all of their vendors and performers with the comfort of knowing they had a secure venue and dates.
Please see the release below for more information on EProval, and please visit the Special Event &amp; Block Party Permitting page for information on the new application process. Please check out the 'Getting Started: Event Permits' document under the 'Important Documents' tab on the left for information on the entire permitting process!

New Features with Eproval
In addition to being able to secure their event venue prior to completing all event-specific details, Eproval provides several new exciting features that will make the event permitting process more streamlined for applicants. Among them:
Scalable Application: During Phase Two of the application, applicants will be asked a series of yes/no questions up front, such as but not limited to: “will your event have a stage?” and “will you be having fireworks?” This allows the system to custom build an application specific to that event. If the event takes place in a park and does not impact any roadways, the applicant will not be presented with questions about road closures. If an event will not have fireworks, the applicant will not have to answer any questions about fireworks. This will minimize the length of the application for small community events, while larger more complex events will require more information.
Public Event Calendar: During the application process, applicants will be given the opportunity to opt-in to our brand new public event calendar. This will be a forward facing calendar that will list all pending and approved event applications. Applicants who opt into being on the calendar can provide contact info and website information, as well as a quick two to three sentence marketing pitch. This calendar will be available on the City’s website for anyone to find when looking for things to do in the City.

jasujazumdinski
Contact Us
For general information and guidance, please reach out to the Office of Film &amp; Event Management at the following contact info.
Office of Film &amp; Event Management
412-255-2641
ofem@pittsburghpa.gov
Hours
Monday- Friday
8:00am - 4:45pm EST
Please note: Staff works a hybrid schedule. The Preferred method of contact for the fastest response is email.
last updated: 10/07/2025
Back to top
Ready
jasujazumdinski