Skip to main content
opens in new tab or window
In This Section

Mayor
City Controller
City Council
Boards, Authorities, Commissions
Legal Services
Jobs  - Careers
Human Resources and Civil Service    - Civil Service Commission
Pittsburgh Partnership
Neighborhood Employment Centers (NEC’s)
Learn &amp; Earn
Classification &amp; Compensation Study
Bridging Federal Talent with City of Pittsburgh Government

Finance &amp; Budget
Contacts &amp; Information

Learn &amp; Earn

Learn &amp; Earn Summer Youth Employment Program -Accepting Applications for 2025
Apply for the program here \| Program Details(PDF, 502KB)
412.932.2950
The Learn and Earn Summer Youth Employment program provides summer job opportunities for youth ages 14-21. Residents of the City of Pittsburgh and Allegheny County may apply for this program. Applicants must have:

Proof of Address (Dated within the last 6 months)
Proof of total Household Income (Dated within the last 6 months)
Proof of Age
Proof of Social Security
Proof of Social Citizenship/ Alien status
Have or create an email address

Applicants will be asked to upload these documents online. Acceptance into the program is based on the number of available positions.
For more information visit:

Learn &amp; Earn Website
Partner4Work Website

Important Dates
Youth may work up to 25 hours per week, Monday through Friday, for a total of 150 hours during the summer. Actual work hours may vary by job. Actual wage will be determined at a later date
To apply visit the following websites for updates:

Learn &amp; Earn Website
Partner4Work Website

Visit the Learn &amp; Earn website to learn more and for information about how to apply.
jasujazumdinski
Corporate Internship Program
The Corporate Internship Program is open to young adults between ages 18-24, who are permanent residents of Allegheny County or the City of Pittsburgh, and have prior work experience. The Corporate Internship on-line application will be available in the Spring of 2025. View the Corporate Internship program.
Application Assistance Centers
Application Assistance Centers have been established to assist applicants with the online application. These centers can also assist applicants with uploading documents which are used to verify their eligibility online. Please check back here in the Spring of 2025 for location and contact information for Application Assistance Centers. For assistance with the online application, call or visit one of the Application Centers listed or call the Learn &amp; Earn Team at Partner4Work at (412) 932-2950.

PSYEP Reports

last updated: 04/22/2025
Back to top
Ready
jasujazumdinski