Skip to main content
opens in new tab or window
In This Section

Mayor  - Biography
2025 Governing Agenda
Mayor's Cabinet
Youth Civic Leadership Academy
Press Releases
Newsletters
Contact
Letters of Support Forms
Executive Orders
Office of Immigrant and Refugee Affairs
My Brother's Keeper
City-County Building
City of Pittsburgh Charity Challenges: FAQs
Key Focus Areas
Pittsburgh Innovation Team
City Controller
City Council
Boards, Authorities, Commissions
Legal Services
Jobs
Finance &amp; Budget
Contacts &amp; Information

Pittsburgh Innovation Team
Bloomberg American Sustainable Cities (BASC) is a three-year initiative to turbocharge 25 U.S. cities’ efforts to proactively build cleaner, more resilient, and economically thriving communities. The initiative aims to enhance the work already being done by climate-forward mayors across the U.S. by providing support for cities to design climate programs that fully seize the historic opportunity to access and implement federal funds to advance transformative changes.
Data shows that major sources of harmful pollution are disproportionately located in Black and People of Color communities living on low incomes. Through Bloomberg American Sustainable Cities, innovation teams will focus on building relationships in these communities and work alongside them to advance innovative projects that provide cleaner air, improved public health, a stronger economy with clean energy jobs, and the promise of a more equitable, sustainable future.
The Pittsburgh Innovation Team is focused on two key City priorities: advancing initiatives to electrify, weatherize, and install solar systems in the homes of under-resourced residents, while simultaneously expanding workforce opportunities and creating clean energy career pathways for disadvantaged workers. These efforts also aim to support minority- and women-owned businesses in the region.
Elliott Williams, Innovation Team Civic Designer, will lead this work in Pittsburgh.
For more information, please visit Bloomberg American Sustainable Cities.
last updated: 05/12/2025
Back to top
Ready
jasujazumdinski