opens in new tab or window
In This Section
City Planning
Mobility and Infrastructure
Permits, Licenses, and Inspections  - Applications & Forms
OneStopPGH
Permits
Licenses    - Business Licenses
Contractor Licenses
Trade Licenses
Bulletins
Community Resources
Code Enforcement
Condemned Buildings
PLI Fees
Building Codes
Appeals
PLI Contacts
Announcements
Registrations
Digital Equity In Pittsburgh
Small Business Resources
Public Works
Zoning
Geographic Information Systems, Mapping & Open Data
Procurement
PGH Lab
Sustainability
Trade Licenses
The Department of Permits, Licenses, and Inspections issues the following Trade Licenses:
Electrical Trade License
Mechanical/HVAC Trade License
Stationary Power Engineer License
Fire Suppression Trade License
Continuing Education Units Information
Trade License holders are required to obtain eight (8) continuing education units (CEUs) annually to be eligible for renewal. One CEU is equal to one hour. Please find more information about CEU requirement here.
A list of accepted Continuing Education Units for Trade License Holders and when they must be completed can be found here: Continuing Education Units for Trade License Holders(PDF, 57KB)
PLI will accept relevant continuing education credits from accredited institutions as listed by:
The ICC Preferred Provider’s Directory. For a full list of current providers, visit the ICC website, and then “ Providers Directory.”
The Pennsylvania Department of Labor and Industry’s (“PA DLI”) Uniform Construction Code continuing education providers. For a list of current providers, visit the Department of Labor and Industry website, and then “ Continuing Education Providers.”
The International Union of Operating Engineers (“IUOE”) and the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (“OSHA”) for relevant courses and trainings for Stationary Power Engineers.
If you intend to take a course outside of the acceptable CEU provider lists above, PLI will review requests on a case-by-case basis. Please contact PLIAppTech@pittsburghpa.gov with the course title and content, course instructor and qualifications, and information explaining the course relevance to the trade. A determination will be made within ten (10) business days. This pending determination is not a valid reason for license renewal delays. Licensees are solely responsible for providing PLI with the necessary information to make timely CEU determinations. Licenses that expire or lapse during any determination period will be subject to standard processing as per the Rules and Regulations.
In addition, trainings provided by trade-specific union and apprenticeship programs are accepted.
In determining whether a CEU provider is acceptable, PLI will refer to the lists maintained by the third-parties identified above.
jasujazumdinski
Additional Applicant Information
All licenses expire 365 days from the date of issuance. Business license holders who allow their license to expire will be charged a late fee after the date of expiration
All applications must be fully completed to be processed. An incomplete application will be returned to the applicant.
If a trade license is not renewed within sixty (60) days past the expiration date, applicants must meet all of the new, applicable application requirements, which may include but are not necessarily limited to re-testing.
For all trade licenses and contractor licenses, grace periods will begin at the expiration of a license and continue for sixty (60) days. If the license is not renewed within thirty (30) days after the expiration date, per the fee schedule, a late fee is incurred on the thirty-first (31st) day following the expiration date. If the license is not renewed within sixty (60) days after the expiration date, then on the sixty-first (61st) day following the expiration date, the license automatically lapses. All licensees that allow their license to lapse must apply for a new license and meet all new license requirements at the time of that new application. Permits related to the licensed activity will be suspended until a valid and current trade license is connected to the permitted work.
jasujazumdinski
Fee Schedule
All Department of Permits, Licenses, and Inspections fees change annually. Please consult the Current Fee Schedule below.
The permit and license fees for the Department of Permits, Licenses, and Inspections undergo periodic adjustments. Please consult the current year Fee Schedule.
Fee Schedule
Note once a permit or license has been issued, refunds are not provided.
Electrical Trade License
Mechanical/HVAC Trade License
Stationary Power Engineer License
Fire Suppression Trade License
Child Care Facility Registry
Rental Registration
last updated: 06/06/2025
Back to top
Ready
jasujazumdinski