Skip to main content
opens in new tab or window
Erika Strassburger, District 8
Councilmember

Telephone412-255-2133
Emaildistrict8@pittsburghpa.gov

Introduction
Welcome to Pittsburgh’s 8th Council District and the Office of Councilperson Erika Strassburger. District 8 contains a collection of vibrant neighborhoods in Pittsburgh’s East End: Oakland, Shadyside, and Squirrel Hill. Please explore our website for information on City services, legislation, office initiatives, and more.
Our Neighborhoods
Oakland(show below)
Oakland is the cultural and educational center of Pittsburgh. The University of Pittsburgh, Carnegie Mellon University, and the Carnegie Museums of Natural History and Art are all located in this large neighborhood that borders Squirrel Hill and Shadyside. Oakland enjoys a very diverse population. Students from the four prestigious universities located here hail from more than ninety countries and coexist with longtime Oakland residents throughout the densely populated neighborhood. The neighborhood contains business districts along Forbes and Fifth Avenues and the side streets that connect them as well as Craig Street.
Shadyside(show below)
Located in the heart of Pittsburgh’s East End, Shadyside is home to a mix of families, young professionals, artists, and students. This dense neighborhood contains three bustling business districts on Walnut Street, Ellsworth Avenue, and South Highland Avenue. The neighborhood is home to a beautiful patchwork of stately Victorian mansions, well-maintained apartment and condominium buildings, and contemporary homes.
Squirrel Hill(show below)
Historically considered the home of Pittsburgh’s Jewish community, Squirrel Hill still maintains its strong Jewish heritage even as a younger and more diverse population has moved into the neighborhood. Squirrel Hill residents enjoy the rare combination of urban amenities, such as a walkable and lively business district along Murray and Forbes Avenues, and large homes with sizable front lawns and backyards. Also located in Squirrel Hill is the beautiful campus of Chatham University.

2025 Ballot Questions for May 20, 2025 - Primary Election
Proposed Changes to the City of Pittsburgh's Zoning Code\
\
This page has been created to serve as an easy-to-read overview of the various proposed changes to the City of Pittsburgh's Zoning Code in regard to Inclusionary Zoning (IZ), the Fair Housing Act, and the Housing Needs Assessment.
Employee Ownership
Wightman Park Improvement Project
District 8 In the News
Community Organizations
Landmarks &amp; Attractions
Councilperson Erika Strassburger
Engage with Us!
Calendars
Contacts
Resources
Feedback
Newsletters
last updated: 09/01/2025
Back to top
Ready
jasujazumdinski