opens in new tab or window
Juneteenth Celebrations
JUNE 14: CommUnity Concert & Family BBQ(show below)
Date: Saturday, June 14, 2025 Time: 1:00-5:00 PM Location: Allegheny Commons East (at Cedar and Pressley Street) Cost: FREE
Performing artists Kanti Kasa and Livefromthecity bring their high energy and style to the stage for this Juneteenth weekend celebration featuring cookout foods by Community Kitchen Pittsburgh providing the first 100 meals for free. Additional food vendors on site along with a 3pt shoot out contest, backyard games and line dancing!
JUNE 18: Summer Family Roller Sk8(show below)
EVENT POSTPONED UNTIL SUNDAY, JUNE 22!!!
Ticket holders, hold onto your tickets to receive entry on Sunday!
Date: Sunday, JUNE 22
Time: 5:00-7:30 PM
Location: Schenley Park Roller Rink
Cost: Free, registration required -
register here
Join us for a free night at the Schenley Park Roller Rink and learn about the rich history of roller skating in Pittsburgh’s black community! More info about the Roller Rink can also be found here - https://www.pittsburghpa.gov/Recreation-Events/Park-Facilities/Schenley-Skating-Rink/Schenley-Park-Roller-Rink
JUNE 15-21: Dollar Bank Cinema in the Park(show below)
Dates: See below Time:  Dusk, unless otherwise noted Locations: See below Cost: FREE
Dollar Bank Cinema in the Park invites you to bring a blanket or lawn chair to enjoy your favorite park location’s showing a special feature film of “Soul” (PG) or “Fences” (PG-13).
Sunday, June 15, 2025 Schenley Plaza - “Soul”
Monday, June 16, 2025 Banksville Park - “Soul”
Wednesday, June 18, 2025 Flagstaff Hill - “Fences”
Friday, June 20, 2025 Arsenal Park - “Soul”
Saturday, June 21, 2025 Grandview Park - “Soul”
Saturday, June 21, 2025 Riverview Park - “Fences”  (following the Stars at Riverview concert)
Visit our Dollar Bank Cinema in the Park page for more movie details.
JUNE 15-21: Roving Art Cart & Storytime featuring "Me and Uncle Romie"(show below)
Storytime featuring "Me and Uncle Romie" Dates: See below
Time: Storytime 10:00 AM, Art Cart 10:00 AM-1:00 PM
Location: See below
Cost: FREE
June 17: Allegheny Commons Park East, Northside
June 18: Paulson Spray Park, Lincoln-Lemington
June 20: Highland Park Super Playground, Highland Park
Me and Uncle Romie - A story inspired by the life and art of Romare Bearden. Romare moved to Pittsburgh from New York City with his grandparents and learned to draw from a neighbor and later went on to college. Romare's art often depicted Pittsburgh neighborhoods. Romare Bearden is a featured artist in the the Roving Art Cart's "Meet the Masters" series. Romare created "Pittsburgh Recollections" for the original Gateway T-Station in Pittsburgh. Children attending can create a neighborhood collage.
JUNE 28: WAMO DAY in partnership with the City of Pittsburgh(show below)
Date: Saturday, June 28, 2025 Time: 12:00-5:00 PM Location: Fountain Lawn, Highland Park Cost: FREE
WAMO 107.3 made history in Pittsburgh, June 19, 1993 to be the first organized celebration and remembrance of Juneteenth in Pittsburgh, called WAMO DAY. WAMO has partnered with the City of Pittsburgh on many special events and it is an honor to collaborate on this Juneteenth's culminating showcase of black talent and culture in Pittsburgh.
Special activities, and performances will be offered throughout the afternoon including: Cue Perry's Live Collaborative Painting, Beanie Paints Face Painting, Reading is Fundamental's Storymobile, and 360 Photo Booth.
jasujazumdinski
SECURITY DETAILS
This event is committed to creating a safe, comfortable, and enjoyable experience. Intervention with any impaired or intoxicated guests will be handled in a prompt and safe manner. Prohibited items include but are not limited to: