Skip to main content
opens in new tab or window
In This Section

City Planning  - About City Planning
City Planning Meeting Calendar
City Planning Public Notices
Commissions and Boards
Historic Preservation Program
Public Art Program
Neighborhood Planning
Master &amp; Neighborhood Plans
City Planning Projects
City Planning Programs
Development Review Process Guides
Mobility and Infrastructure
Permits, Licenses, and Inspections
Digital Equity In Pittsburgh
Small Business Resources
Public Works
Zoning
Geographic Information Systems, Mapping &amp; Open Data
Procurement
PGH Lab
Sustainability

Land Use &amp; Policy
These links change page section content below

Overview
Inclusionary Housing
Recent Work and Current Proposed Changes

1. Overview
One of the Department of City Planning’s core responsibilities include recommending policies and developing long-range plans that adapt and evolve the City’s approach to land use to meet current and future housing needs.
2. Inclusionary Housing
Inclusionary Housing is a zoning tool used to increase the production of affordable housing and provide a diverse range of housing choices. Currently, the City of Pittsburgh has four Inclusionary Housing Overlay Districts (IZ-O), where developments of 20 or more units are required to provide at least 10% of all units as affordable. Residents looking to rent or own affordable units within the IZ-O can find helpful documents and links to resources in the Renters and Homeowners tab, respectively. Developers that wish to build within the IZ-O can access guides to providing affordable units within the Developers tab.
Renters(show below)
There are four neighborhoods in the City of Pittsburgh that require developers to provide 10% of total units at an affordable rent for households earning up to 50% Area Median Income (AMI):
Bloomfield
Bloomfield Development Corporation
Bloomfield Development Corporation (BDC) is a registered community organization (RCO) for Bloomfield. BDC partners with RentHelpPGH to help guide residents in obtaining the resources they need to secure housing.
Bloomfield Garfield Corporation
Bloomfield Garfield Corporation (BGC) is a registered community organization (RCO) for the communities of Bloomfield and Garfield. BGC develops its own affordable housing within Garfield, and provides resources for its residents through the Neighbors in Need Fund.
List of Inclusionary Zoning Affordable Units in Bloomfield
Lawrenceville
Renters have multiple options within Lawrenceville for seeking assistance.
Lawrenceville Corporation
Lawrenceville Corporation is driven to serve members of the Lawrenceville community through supporting businesses and neighborhood residents.
Lawrenceville United
Lawrenceville United is another community group for Lawrenceville residents, that often works in a complementary capacity to Lawrenceville Corporation.
Inclusionary Zoning Affordable Units
Oakland
Oakland Planning and Development Corporation
Oakland Planning and Development Corporation (OPDC) is heavily involved with its community members, providing a variety of resources to help ensure people are housed or can find housing.
Inclusionary Zoning Affordable Units
Polish Hill
Polish Hill Civic Association
Polish Hill Civic Association works to create affordable housing within the neighborhood, and can help direct potential residents to resources.
Inclusionary Zoning Affordable Units
Homeowners(show below)
Inclusionary units are not always rental units. Our developer and non-profit partners can provide for-sale affordable units as part of their development activity.
Community Land Trusts
City of Bridges Community Land Trust
Oakland Community Land Trust
Developers(show below)
Developers
City of Pittsburgh IZ Compliance Manual
Performance Point Process Guide: 915.07.D.4, Affordable Housing
Prior to Issuance of Record of Zoning Approval
Prior to Issuance of Certificate of Occupancy
Annual Monitoring
Declaration of Covenants
Proposed IZ Unit Floor Plan Example
Chart Noting Unit Mix
jasujazumdinski
3. Recent Work and Current Proposed Changes
Learn more about City Planning's Current work related to housing and land use:
Residential Zoning Code Update
Publicly Owned Vacant Land
New Zoning in Oakland
In response to the need for growth in housing and jobs, the Oakland Plan (official neighborhood plan adopted in 2022) established a Land Use Strategy that mapped future development patterns based on the community's vision and goals. The plan's guidance established three new zoning districts, which include innovative provisions for mixed-use development, flexible building heights, design and sustainability standards, affordable housing, and equitable workforce development.
The first package of zoning amendments included the Fifth &amp; Forbes corridor, Boulevard of the Allies, and Central Oakland between Louisa Street and Dawson Street, which was adopted in February of 2023.
The second package of zoning amendments included large portions of North Oakland, which was adopted in February of 2025.
Learn more here: https://engage.pittsburghpa.gov/oakland
Comprehensive Plan
Housing is a very emotional topic because it is many things for most people: it is a place to rest, a private space, a place for kids to grow or for people to age in place; housing is a nest egg and a space to create memories, art, families, connections, and communities. But the language of planning will often focus on measurable criteria such as the number of housing units, or percentage of renters versus homeowners. The City of Pittsburgh and Department of City Planning’s Comprehensive Plan process is designed to go beyond the usual numbers and connect with Pittsburghers to capture a shared vision for 2050. It is also designed to guide the development of land use policies and goals that could help meet the needs of our fellow residents for safe, affordable, and healthy homes and communities.
Please visit the Comprehensive Plan Engage Page and the PGH2050 site to learn more about how you can help shape land use policies that will affect housing in Pittsburgh for decades to come.
last updated: 04/10/2025
Back to top
Ready
jasujazumdinski