opens in new tab or window
In This Section
Mayor
City Controller
City Council
Boards, Authorities, Commissions  - Member Rosters
Agendas & Minutes
List of Boards, Authorities, Commissions    - Allegheny County Sanitary Authority (ALCOSAN)
Allegheny Regional Asset District (ARAD)
Board of Appeals
Bridge Asset Management Program
City-County Task Force on Disabilities
Civil Service Commission
Clean Pittsburgh Commission
Commission on Human Relations
Comprehensive Municipal Pension Trust Fund
Ethics Hearing Board
Equipment Leasing Authority
Equal Opportunity Review Commission (EORC)
Gender Equity Commission
HIV Commission
Housing Authority, City of Pittsburgh
Independent Citizen Police Review Board
Infrastructure Asset Reporting and Investment
LGBTQIA+ Commission
Municipal Pension Fund
Other Post Employment Benefits (OPEB) Trust Fund
Pittsburgh Land Bank
Records Management Advisory Commission
Shade Tree Commission
Southwestern Pennsylvania Commission
Sports and Exhibition Authority
Stadium Authority
Urban Redevelopment Authority
Legal Services
Jobs
Finance & Budget
Contacts & Information
Commissioners
Our Leadership
Dr. Linda Frank (Chair)
Linda Rose Frank, PhD, MSN, CS, ACRN, FAAN, is currently Professor, Infectious Diseases and Microbiology, Department of Infectious Diseases, Graduate School of Public Health with secondary appointments in School of Nursing, and School of Medicine at the University of Pittsburgh. Since 1988, she has led the DHHS, HRSA-funded, MidAtlantic AIDS Education & Training Center which focuses on HIV education of health care professionals. She has specific expertise is psychiatry, substance use, prison healthcare, HIV treatment adherence and quality management. She is a long- time advocate for care and funding for HIV serving since 1998 on the Public Policy Committee of AIDS United in Washington, DC. In 2010, she received the University of Pittsburgh, Chancellor’s Public Service Award.
jasujazumdinski
Dr. Antoine Douaihy (Co-Chair)
Antoine Douaihy, MD is a Professor of Psychiatry and Medicine, Senior Academic Director of Addiction Medicine Services (AMS) and Addiction Psychiatry Fellowship at Western Psychiatric Institute and Clinic of the University of Pittsburgh Medical Center (UPMC), and Co-Director of the Tobacco Treatment Service of UPMC. His areas of clinical and research expertise and interest are substance use disorders (SUDs) and SUDs co-occurring with psychiatric disorders in adults and adolescents, psychiatric disorders in individuals with HIV/HCV, smoking cessation and psychosocial approaches, particularly motivational interviewing, and medication trials for co-occurring disorders, opioid and stimulant use disorders. He has a demonstrated record of expertise and experience in SUDs and a well-established record of leadership and expertise in conducting multisite clinical trials. He currently serves on the physician workgroup on medical marijuana at the PA Department of Health.
Commissioners
Dr. Mallory McCormick (Secretary)
Mallory McCormick, PharmD, AAHIVP is a Clinical Pharmacist and Pharmacy Supervisor at Coordinated Care Network Pharmacy, a 340B contracted pharmacy. She has been working with HIV+ patients and providers of Ryan White clinics since 2013. She also works hands on with pre-exposure prophylaxis (PrEP) and Hepatitis C (HCV)/HIV coinfected patients and providers. Her research includes rapid antiretroviral therapy (ART) initiation for those newly diagnosed with HIV.
jasujazumdinski
Rev Clifford J Foster (Treasurer)
Rev. Clifford Foster founded of the Central Outreach Resource and referral Center in November 2001 which aims to connect substance users and their families with agencies who can best meet their immediate needs and provides the necessary referrals to detoxification centers, rehabilitation centers, emergency shelters, and other housing. The program also provides referrals to food banks, mental health services, alcohol and other drug outpatient treatment centers, HIV/AIDS counseling and testing, and employment and job training services.
Kezia L. Ellison
Kezia L. Ellison is Founder and President of Educating Teens, Inc. a non-profit organization that provides comprehensive intergenerational HIV/AIDS & STI prevention education for pre-teens, teens, young adults and their families. In its 18th year, the organization focuses on the underlying factors of risky behavior, societal issues, and maintaining a healthy lifestyle. Ellison currently serves as a trustee of Pittsburgh History & Landmark Foundation and is a member of the newly formed August Wilson Center Community Advisory Council.
Rev. Dr. Marla B. Johnson
Marla B. Johnson, EdD MEd, BS, CADC, is the founder of C.I.A.M. Network, an HIV/AIDS initiative; and Arts Diversity. Compassion Is A Must (C.I.A.M.) services the community and business environments utilizing as a conference speaker, collaborative associations, implementing viable programs for families, faith-based initiatives, homeless, HIV/AIDS, youth/young adults, and community organizations with creative expressions. Dr. Johnson is also the Founder of the R.A.P.H.A. (Reach Act Provide Health Awareness) Program in 1999, the first faith-based and non-profit AIDS program in Allegheny County.
jasujazumdinski
Dr. Oladoyin Desalu
Oladoyin Desalu, DrPH has worked in the HIV/AIDS field for 21 years. She had responsibility for planning HIV/AIDS care, prevention and housing services for the southwest Pennsylvania region. In addition, she made sure that Federal and Pennsylvania State HIV/AIDS funds were allocated to needed and prioritized services. She is a relentless HIV/AIDS advocate. Dr. Desalu is also a teacher and has trained undergraduate, graduate, and non-traditional students, as well as human services agency staff.
Dr. Darren L. Whitfield
Darren Whitfield, PhD, MSW has more than 10 years of practice experience working in the HIV/AIDS field and volunteers with several agencies serving LGBTQ communities. Dr. Whitfield is studying the role of social and psychosocial factors on HIV pre-exposure prophylaxis (PrEP) use among gay and bisexual men of color.
Dr. Amesh Adalja
Amesh Adalja, MD is a Pittsburgh-based board-certified infectious disease physician and a senior scholar at the Johns Hopkins Center for Health Security. His career focus has been on the intersection of infectious disease and national security and includes infectious disease emergencies, emerging infectious diseases, biosecurity, infectious disease policy, and pandemic preparedness. He is also board certified in internal medicine, emergency medicine, and critical care medicine.
Dr. Julie Kmiec
Julie Kmiec, DO, is an addiction psychiatrist whose primary clinical area is the treatments of individuals with opioid use disorder. She is interested in harm reduction approaches to prevent opioid overdose and transmission of HIV and hepatitis C. She is currently an Assistant Professor of Psychiatry at the University of Pittsburgh, School of Medicine.
jasujazumdinski
Diana Byas
Diana Byas, RN, MSN, ACRN, CCMCurrently work for the University of Pittsburgh Medical Center Insurance Division, UPMC Health Plan one of the largest managed care group in Pennsylvania as a Supervisor, Maternity, Medical Management. She has extensive experience working with diverse and high risk populations as a public health leader, health care educator, and a resource person.
Dr. Harold Weisenfeld
Harold Weisenfeld, MD, is currently Professor, Department of Obstetrics, Gynecology & Reproductive Sciences; Vice Chair, Gynecologic Services; Division Director, Gynecologic Specialties and Reproductive Infectious Disease
Lyndsey Sickler
Lyndsey Sicker, is director of youth community programs at Persad Center, Inc. She is community advocate with over 18 years of experience working directly with LGBTQIA+ youth and those experiencing crisis.
Margaret Taylor
Margaret Taylor, MPH, is the Public Health Advisor assigned to the STD program at Allegheny County Health Department from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). She was assigned to Allegheny County in November, 2007 and continues to work at the STD Public Health Clinic to provide technical guidance. Ms. Taylor has almost thirty years with the federal government and has worked a variety of assignment including Los Angeles, CA as Field Operations Manager, Training Specialist in Lansing, MI and Senior Public Health Advisor in Charleston, WV. Ms. Taylor's MPH was earned at Tulane University.
Back to top
Ready
jasujazumdinski