Skip to main content
opens in new tab or window
Commissioners
Commission Factsheet(PDF, 210KB)
Interested in becoming a Commissioner? Visit the Mayor's application page to apply.
Teaira Collins(show below)
Teaira Collins is a founder and food equity ambassador on the board of directors of the Pittsburgh Food Policy Counil, the owner and founder of Lion of Judah Enterprises, an elected board member of Pittsburghers for Public Transit and since 2023, a Commissioner, too.
Genevieve Rosselot(show below)
Genevieve Rosselot has been serving as a commissioner since 2023. She is a lifelong Pittsburgher who has lived on all sides of the city and currently resides in the North Side. We are the home of Mister Rogers neighborhood but we know from recent studies that not all of our neighbors are thriving. It's an honor to play a small part protecting human rights and advancing equity in the City.
Alberto Benzaquen(show below)
Alberto Benzaquen is an economist with an MBA in international business. He is a PA State Auditor (Dep. Auditor General), a USA Citizen, and an immigrant. While passionate about equity and human rights, he is not afraid to forge his own path. Alberto is happily married to his wife Alexandra, with whom he enjoys traveling, cooking, and visiting his family in Spain.
Rabbi Jamie Gibson(show below)
Rabbi Jamie Gibson is the Emeritus Rabbi of Temple Sinai in Squirrel Hill where he served from 1988-2020. He is glad to participate in the work of the Commission because, in his words, “Justice for all Pittsburghers is our unique charge. We help people of all backgrounds deal with charges of discrimination. To me this is a religious obligation, as it says in Deuteronomy, 'Justice, justice, shall you pursue.'"
Carleen King(show below)
Carleen King, MBA, is graduate of Point Park Univeristy and the owner of Carmi Soul Food Restaurant since 2011 along with her husband, Michael. She joined the Commission in 2023.
Luz Esneda Blandon(show below)
Luz Blandon, a native of Colombia, is the Executive Vice President for Immigrant Children Services of the Holy Family Institute and was honored in 2020 as one of Pittsburgh Magazine's 40 Under 40 for her work helping minors who come to the United States and trying to foster a more welcoming Pittsburgh.
Namita Dwarakanath(show below)
Namita Dwarakanath (she/her) joins the commission from a background in public health and law. She previously worked in anti-violence spaces, particularly those centered on gender-based violence, in Washington DC, Philadelphia, and Pittsburgh. I am grateful to be part of the Commission because I believe that our collective safety is tied to our collective equality, rights, and dignity.
Kyle Webster(show below)
Mary Jayne McCullough(show below)
Isabel Ruiz-Flint(show below)
Richard Morris(show below)

FAQs
History
Commissioners

jasujazumdinski
CHR Sections

About PghCHR
Commission Meetings
Public Portal
*NEW* LGBTQIA+ Housing Rights Research
Language Access Portal
Request a Presentation
Fair Housing
Equal Employment
Public Accommodations &amp; City Services
Updates to Protections
External Resources and Referrals
Contact Us

last updated: 08/06/2025
Back to top
Ready
jasujazumdinski