opens in new tab or window
In This Section
City Planning
Mobility and Infrastructure  - About Mobility and Infrastructure
Maps
Plans
Current DOMI Projects
Transportation Development Review
Right-of-Way Management    - Right-of-Way Procedures Manual
ROW 311 and Code Enforcement
Applicant Guidance
Telecommunications
Small Cell Facilities
Encroachment Permit
Outdoor Dining & Operations Program
Permits, Licenses, and Inspections
Digital Equity In Pittsburgh
Small Business Resources
Public Works
Zoning
Geographic Information Systems, Mapping & Open Data
Procurement
PGH Lab
Sustainability
Right-of-Way Management
DOMI Right-of-Way (ROW) Permits and Plan Reviews are on OneStopPGH!
Register and apply online
Please visit our Applicant Guidance page for more information about permit types, dates, and fees. For questions, DOMI’s in-person and remote customer service hours are Monday – Friday from 9am to 3pm via our counter at 412 Boulevard of the Allies, permit phone line at 412-255-2370, and the OneStopPGH portal chat. You can also email us anytime at domipermits@pittsburghpa.gov.
OneStopPGH is a single online location where residents, businesses, contractors, and others can apply, pay for, and receive permits online. To get started, visit the OneStopPGH Public Portal.
The move to OneStopPGH may mean changes to application requirements and fees. Before you apply, please review our user-friendly documents on the Applicant Guidance page, including the ROW Fee Schedule and information sheets for each permit type.
Please see this simple guide(PDF, 3MB) for how to register with OneStopPGH and apply for DOMI Permits. For questions, email domipermits@pittsburghpa.gov.
If you are new to OneStopPGH, please watch the instructional videos created for the Department of Permits, Licenses, and Inspections. Although these videos are geared toward building permits, many of the basic videos apply to DOMI Permits and Plan Reviews.
jasujazumdinski
DOMI Permits Available Online
Banner, Construction Staging (Barricade), Construction Staging (Demolition Dumpster), Construction Staging(Machinery), Construction Staging (Materials Staging), Construction Staging (Scaffolding), Curb Cut, Moving, Opening, Pole, Sidewalk Repair, Banner, Valet, Outdoor Dining & Retail, Tree, and Small Cell Wireless Facility.
All Opening, Pole, and Construction Staging (Barricade) permits must list a general contractor on the permit application. General contractors are required to register with the City of Pittsburgh in order to verify insurance and tax compliance. You can apply for the General Contractor License online though OneStopPGH. Visit PLI website for more information.
DOMI Plan Reviews Available Online
Minor Encroachment, Major Encroachment, ROW Improvement Plan (New Construction and Minor), Street Vacation, Street Dedication, Annual Bridge, Annual Dumpster, Annual Machinery, Annual Valet, and Annual ROW Use Agreement.
For questions on ROW Improvement Plans, email DOMI.Streets@pittsburghpa.gov.
For questions on encroachment, street vacation, and street dedication applications, email Jennifer.Massacci@pittsburghpa.gov.
Contact Us
For questions, please email domipermits@pittsburghpa.gov.
last updated: 04/23/2025
Back to top
Ready
jasujazumdinski