opens in new tab or window
In This Section
City Planning
Mobility and Infrastructure
Permits, Licenses, and Inspections
Digital Equity In Pittsburgh  - Community Collaborations
Media and Information Resources
Small Business Resources
Public Works
Zoning
Geographic Information Systems, Mapping & Open Data
Procurement
PGH Lab
Sustainability
Digital Equity In Pittsburgh
Mayor Ed Gainey's administration knows that there is a gap between the haves and have nots when it comes to access, availability, services and skills training. These four areas have been identified in the text of the Pittsburgh Digital Equity Coalition's Community Strategic Plan. Local and national surveys demonstrate that affordability is the biggest reason households do not subscribe to broadband (high-speed internet), and a lack of understanding for how to use a computer is a major contributing factor. Additionally, a 2022 Southwestern Pennsylvania Commission report on Equitable Broadband Access indicates that Seniors, Families with K-12 students, and Black citizens are disproportionately disconnected, and efforts should be taken to help these key populations.
PDEC Community Strategic Plan
Four areas have been identified as having the greatest need for digital equity programming, with local organizations providing targeted support:
High quality, affordable internet services(show below)
Despite service technically being available for most Pittsburghers, prices can sometimes be outside of the budgets of some residents. Though an option is available, residents are considered to be underserved since pricing does not reflect their financial resources.
The United Way of Southwestern PA has resources and guidance on identifying available service options as well as subsidized plans for residents in need.
Computing devices to meet residents’ needs.(show below)
Computer Reach is a Pittsburgh-based nonprofit that makes refurbished technology available to residents in need that has provided over 19,100 devices since its inception in 2001. Computer Reach has a warehouse located in Homewood in Pittsburgh, PA where residents can test out devices before purchasing in addition to Computer Lottery giveaways where residents can obtain devices at no cost.
Internet skills, knowledge and literacy.(show below)
Without familiarity or a knowledge base of processes, residents may find difficulty in using resources made available to them.
Multiple organizations servicing particular audiences offer free educational programming for residents of Allegheny County to develop digital literacy and workplace skills amongst other topics so they can utilize online tools and participate in the digital economy
These organizations serve these audiences:
Broad audience but also serves low-income/FPL/ALICE households, Immigrant and refugee populations, English Language Learners
Broad audience but also serves low-income/FPL/ALICE households
Older Adults
Justice Impacted Individuals
Accessible Technical Support(show below)
After receiving devices and training there’s still the possibility that residents will encounter issues interfacing with technology.
Computer Reach provides support for residents who encounter issues.
jasujazumdinski
Who's Listening?
Chase Klingensmith
Digital Equity Program Analyst
Innovation & Performance
chase.klingensmith
last updated: 04/24/2025
Back to top
Ready
jasujazumdinski