opens in new tab or window
In This Section
Trash & Recycling
311
A - Z: Frequently Visited
ADA & Disability Rights
Snow Removal
Road Maintenance  - Street Maintenance    - Street Sweeping
Disaster Response
Paving Schedule
Potholes
Road Safety
Food Programs
Pets & Animals
Community Programming
Immigrant and Refugee Affairs
Tree Resources
Street Sweeping
In the spring season of each year, the Department of Public Works (DPW) starts its Street Sweeping Program. The goal of the Street Sweeping Program is to maintain Pittsburgh's streets on a regular basis by either machine sweeping, hand cleaning, or flushing.
Schedule
Street Sweeping begins April 1 and ends November 30.
The schedule is adjusted based on weather conditions.
Business Districts are normally cleaned at night, this is to avoid disrupting normal business activity while taking advantage of parking restrictions.
Neighborhood and residential street sweeping begins after 8 AM and ends approximately at 2:30 PM.
Services
The program offers four levels of service.
Level 1: Heavily developed commercial business districts with considerable vehicular and pedestrian traffic.
Streets will be swept and flushed at least twice per week.
Level 2: Neighborhood business districts and main streets with moderate vehicular and pedestrian traffic.
Streets will be swept or flushed once per week.
Level 3: Residential areas with limited throughway and pedestrian traffic.
Streets will be swept once or twice per month.
Level 4: Neighborhood streets which are used for local purposes only.
Streets will be swept or flushed two to four times per year.
Public Works administration staff closely monitors the street sweeping program's effectiveness to assure that the maximum amount of service is being executed, in addition to the program goals being satisfied.
Holiday Cancellations
Unlike Curbside Refuse Collection, when an observed holiday falls on the same day as signed Street Cleaning, the Street Cleaning day is cancelled, and will not occur until the next street signed Street Cleaning day. To request additional Street Cleaning please call 311 or utilize the online 311 form.
last updated: 09/10/2025
Back to top
Ready
jasujazumdinski