opens in new tab or window
In This Section
City Planning
Mobility and Infrastructure
Permits, Licenses, and Inspections  - Applications & Forms
OneStopPGH
Permits    - About PLI
Residential Permits
Commercial Permits
Permit Process
Work Not Requiring a Permit
Licenses
Bulletins
Community Resources
Code Enforcement
Condemned Buildings
PLI Fees
Building Codes
Appeals
PLI Contacts
Announcements
Registrations
Digital Equity In Pittsburgh
Small Business Resources
Public Works
Zoning
Geographic Information Systems, Mapping & Open Data
Procurement
PGH Lab
Sustainability
What is the Status of My Permit?
There are two publicly available resources to help applicants and the public independently track applications through our permitting processes - the list of Permits Pending Review and Civic Central.
Permits Pending Review
The Permits Pending Review(XLSX, 77KB) document is an Excel Spreadsheet that lists all permits pending PLI review. The list is updated weekly and identifies basic permit information including the date of submission and the expected date of PLI review. The order of the list corresponds to PLI’s review order.
The data can be searched and/or filtered by: permit #, permit type, address, work description, occupancy, status, submitted date, and expected date. This resource is helpful in confirming when to expect a PLI response and the position of an individual permit in relation to all pending permits.
Please See PLI's Application Review for review time frames.
jasujazumdinski
OneStopPGH Insights (formerly Agency Counter)
The OneStopPGH Insights (formerly Agency Counter) website is an interactive map that tracks PLI permits, PLI enforcement actions, PLI licenses, and Department of City Planning’s development applications.
Under the “Building” view, users can search by address, neighborhood or zip to look for open and closed PLI permits. Users can find individual permits by filtering by the permit number. Additional filters can be applied based on status (open/complete) and permit type. This information is updated on a daily basis. This resource is useful for confirming the current status and history of a permit.
last updated: 09/22/2025
Back to top
Ready
jasujazumdinski