Skip to main content
opens in new tab or window
In This Section

City Planning
Mobility and Infrastructure
Permits, Licenses, and Inspections  - Applications &amp; Forms
OneStopPGH
Permits    - About PLI
Residential Permits
Commercial Permits
Permit Process
Work Not Requiring a Permit

Licenses
Bulletins
Community Resources
Code Enforcement
Condemned Buildings
PLI Fees
Building Codes
Appeals
PLI Contacts
Announcements
Registrations
Digital Equity In Pittsburgh
Small Business Resources
Public Works
Zoning
Geographic Information Systems, Mapping &amp; Open Data
Procurement
PGH Lab
Sustainability

Commercial Stormwater Permit
A commercial storm permit is required for the following work:

10,000 square feet or more of land disturbance (any grading, excavation, or fill activities that occur on a site).
5,000 square feet or more increase in impervious surface.
5,000 sq. ft. of land disturbance (any grading, excavation, or fill activities that occur on a site) subject to the Project Development Plans or Site Plan Review standards of the RIV Zoning District per 905.04.F.

Work Scopes

Non-Structural BMPs, Other
Non-Struct - Pavement Disconnection
Non-Struct - Rooftop Disconnection
Non-Struct - Tree Canopy Disconnection
Struct - Bioinfiltration/Bioretention
Struct - Cisterns
Struct - Dry Basins
Struct - Green Roof
Struct - Media Filters
Struct - Ponds and Wet Basins
Struct - Porous Pavement
Struct - Subsurface Infiltration/Detention
Structural BMPs, Other
Pretreatment Technologies
Outlet Controls
Cont. Monitoring / Adaptive Control Sys.
Rainwater Reuse
Technical Infeasibility

jasujazumdinski
Fees

DCP Fees - Conceptual Review (stormwater review) paid at the time of application
PLI Fees - Application filing fee (paid at the time of application, all other paid at permit issuance), Remaining Base fee, digital record retention fee, technology fee
ACCD Fees - required for NPDES and erosion and sediment control review

Permit Process
The stormwater permit follows the standard PLI application process, see the following for links to standard process information and for permit specific info.
Application Submission

Conceptual Review Documents: for the initial application the conceptual Storm Water Management (SWM) plan and SWM plan review worksheet are required. The following documents are required as applicable: Zoning performance point system documentation, eligibility for a hardship waiver.
Technical Review Documents: for the 2nd cycle technical review the SWM construction documents and erosion and sediment control plans are required. The following documents are required as applicable: volume control offset and/or rate offsets strategy; volume, rate, and technology incentives strategy; rainwater points for density bonuses documentation; innovation track review request.

Allegheny County Conservation District (ACCD) submission:

Erosion and Sediment Control: All stormwater permit applicants are responsible to submit to ACCD for review of erosion and sediment control plans. ACCD’s “Adequate Letter” shall be submitted as part of the stormwater permit. The technical review shall not be accepted until this documentation is provided.

National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES): For sites involving 1 acre or more of disturbance require an NPDES permit from ACCD. Copy of NPDES permit shall be submitted as part of the stormwater permit. The technical review shall not be accepted until this documentation is provided.

Application Review

1st Review Cycle
Conceptual: This review is always included and is performed by DCP staff.
Technical Infeasibility: This review is included when the applicant includes this work scope and is performed by PLI staff.
2nd Review Cycle
Technical: This review is always included and is performed by PLI staff.
Conceptual: This review is included when a major change, per the Design Manual, occurs from the conceptual plan to the technical review and is performed by DCP staff.

Permit Issuance

This permit requires a valid PLI General Contractor’s license.

Permit Inspections

Stormwater Permit: Inspections shall temporarily be performed by a PLI registered Third Party Agency.
Erosion and Sediment Control (E&amp;S): The permit holder is responsible to request E&amp;S inspections from ACCD.

Permit Completion
The following close-out documents shall be submitted via OneStopPGH portal:

ACCD Inspection reports.
NDPES Notice of Termination
As-built drawings
Stormwater management worksheet

jasujazumdinski
Resources
Stormwater questions? Email stormwaterpermits@pittsburghpa.gov

Department of City Planning’s Stormwater Review
Pittsburgh City Code – Title 13 Legislation
Pittsburgh SWM Design Manual
Pittsburgh SWM Design Manual Appendix
Engage PGH Stormwater Update Info
Allegheny County Conservation District (ACCD)
The Pennsylvania Stormwater Management Act of 1978

last updated: 04/23/2025
Back to top
Ready
jasujazumdinski