Skip to main content
opens in new tab or window
In This Section

City Planning
Mobility and Infrastructure
Permits, Licenses, and Inspections
Digital Equity In Pittsburgh
Small Business Resources
Public Works
Zoning
Geographic Information Systems, Mapping &amp; Open Data
Procurement  - Welcome to Beacon
Beacon FAQs
Bid Opportunities
Current Contracts
Procurement Resources
City Buying Plan
Certified Vendor List
PGH Lab
Sustainability

Welcome to Beacon

Procurement Registration
Bid Opportunities
Current Contracts
Buying Plan(PDF, 3MB)
Procurement Resources
Beacon FAQs
Certified Vendor List(XLSX, 140KB)
Become a Listed DBE Vendor

Mission Statement
Our mission is to be the strategic partner of all City agencies, providing them with the best commodities and services at the best value, in order to meet their operational goals to serve the citizens, while advancing the City’s objectives of transparency, fairness, social inclusion and sustainability.
Vision Statement
Our goal is to facilitate the delivering of these services with a customer service focused approach in a competitive, ethical, open and fair environment with the goal of maximizing the tax payer’s dollar while fostering a climate of value-added business relationships between our Office, our Departments and our Suppliers.
Overview
As of September 2021 the City of Pittsburgh has partnered with OpenGov and is excited to announce the upcoming November 1 release of our updated and enhanced public facing Solicitation and Contracts portal, ProcureNow, that will offer users a more efficient, easy to navigate, customer friendly tool that will allow interested parties to do the following:

Register to bid and receive notifications of future opportunities in the e-Procurement Portal by selecting Subscribe to create an account.
Create a custom vendor profile and choose the categories for which you wish to receive notifications.
Follow updates to existing solicitations by finding the solicitation and clicking the Follow button. This will allow all interested parties to receive amendments and addenda automatically.
Submit questions and receive answers for open solicitations directly in the tool.
Guide vendors through the process of responding electronically to RFPs, bids, etc. to ensure submissions have been accurately completed.
Ultimately, be your one location for all bid opportunities issued by the City of Pittsburgh.
Ability to review award results/postings electronically.

To get started, signup online. You’ll receive an email to activate your account. For more information about how to register, please see our help file.
There is no cost for vendors to register with OpenGov.
last updated: 08/25/2025
Back to top
Ready
jasujazumdinski