Skip to main content
opens in new tab or window
Fair Housing
Filing a Complaint(show below)

Know Your Rights: Guide to Fair Housing
Conozca sus Derechos: Guía para una Vivienda Justa(PDF, 1MB)
(PDF, 1MB) 了解您的权利：公平住房指南(PDF, 4MB)
Знай свои права: Руководство по справедливому жилищному регулированию(PDF, 1MB)
اعرف حقوقك: دليل الإسكان العادل(PDF, 7MB)
आफ्नो अधिकार थाहा पाउनुहोस्: उचित / आवास मार्गदर्शन(PDF, 4MB)
Jua Haki Zako: Mwongo zo wa Makazi ya Haki(PDF, 1MB)
Saiba Seus Direitos: Guia para Habitação Justa(PDF, 2MB)
당신에겐 권리가 있습니다: 공정 주택법 안내(PDF, 6MB)

Biết Quyền của Quý vị: Hướng dẫn về Bình đẳng về Cơ hội Việc làm(PDF, 1MB)

Guide to Filing a Discrimination Complaint(PDF, 895KB)

Guía para presentar una demanda por discriminación(PDF, 1MB)
歧视投诉指南(PDF, 2MB)
Руководство по подаче жалоб о дискриминации(PDF, 1MB)
دليل إلى تقديم شكوى تمييز(PDF, 2MB)
भेदभा व सम्बन्धी उजुरी दा यर गर्न मा र्गदर्शन(PDF, 1MB)
Mwongozo wa Kuwasilisha Malalamiko ya Ubaguzi(PDF, 2MB)
Guia para Fazendo uma Denúncia por Discriminação(PDF, 1MB)
차별 불만 제기 안내(PDF, 2MB)
Hướng dẫn gửi Khiếu nại về Hành vi Phân biệt Đối xử(PDF, 2MB)

Guidance and Information(show below)

CROWN Act Dos and Don'ts in Housing (Protections for Hair Style &amp; Texture)(PDF, 2MB)

Citizenship or Immigration Status and Preferred Language(PDF, 5MB)

Familial Status as a Protected Class infographic(PDF, 271KB)

Updates to Status as a Survivor of Domestic Violence infographic(PDF, 59KB)

Housing Rights under the City Code(PDF, 319KB)

Protected Classes including Housing Protections: Race(PDF, 326KB), Sex(PDF, 2MB), Disability ( Reasonable Accommodations &amp; Modifications(PDF, 382KB) and Service and Support Animals(PDF, 581KB)), Sexual Orientation(PDF, 193KB), Gender Identity(PDF, 402KB), Gender Expression(PDF, 436KB)

Fair Housing Videos: Displacement, Eviction &amp; Affirmatively Furthering Fair Housing * Disability * Familial Status * Domestic Violence * Redlining * Disparate Impact * Immigrant and Refugee Fair Housing Rights ( Inmigrantes Y Refugiados Tienen Derechos De Vivienda Just)

Housing Resources(show below)
jasujazumdinski
Fair Housing Partnership of Greater Pittsburgh
PghCHR is a Fair Housing Assistance Program (FHAP) with HUD, but FHP is our complementary Fair Housing Initiatives Program (FHIP). They can advocate for clients, they do fair housing testing (the best evidence in a discrimination case) and they do policy research, advocacy and education.
Housing and Urban Redevelopment Authority of Pittsburgh Housing Assistance Programs
Services Summary(PDF, 1MB) * Down Payment &amp; Closing Cost Assistance Program(PDF, 1MB) * Home Accessibility Program for Independence(PDF, 700KB) * Homeowner Assistance Program(PDF, 412KB) * Housing Stabilization Program(PDF, 789KB) * Small Landlord Fund Program(PDF, 507KB) * Legal Assistance Program(PDF, 358KB)
U.S. Department of Housing &amp; Urban Redevelopment (HUD)
Choices for All Voices(PDF, 1MB) * Property Appraisal and Valuation Equity (PAVE) Anniversary (video)
Housing Authority of the City of Pittsburgh (HACP)
Living in Public Housing (video) * Home Choice Vouchers (video)
First Commonwealth Bank Housing Assistance Programs
Rent vs Own Comparison(PDF, 587KB) * Low Down Payment Options(PDF, 645KB) * Home100 Mortgage Loan(PDF, 493KB) * First @ Home Mortgage Loan(PDF, 617KB) * To Don'ts When Applying for a Mortgage(PDF, 532KB) * Creating a Budget (video) * How to Establish and Repair Credit (video) * Understanding Credit Reports and Scores (video) * Credit Myths (video) * FCB Everyday (video)
jasujazumdinski
Pittsburgh Hispanic Development Corporation (PHDC)
Rental Services for Tenants and Landlords * Homeownership Initiative
Human Rights City Alliance Pittsburgh
Human Rights Strategy and Action Plan Discussion Document
Just Mediation Pittsburgh
Rent &amp; Utility Assistance Resources
City of Pittsburgh Office of Immigrant &amp; Refugee Affairs
Lease Template &amp; Feedback Form(PDF, 282KB) * Translatable Lease &amp; Feedback Form(PDF, 253KB) * CDBG in the City of Pittsburgh (video)
Fair Housing Month(show below)
Fair Housing &amp; Second Chance Month Summit
Stay tuned for information about Fair Housing Month 2025!
On April 3, 2024, fair housing advocates and professionals gathered in person at the Kelly Strayhorn Theater. The City Channel filmed it for us and we're so thankful.

Introduction by PghCHR Director Rachel Shepherd, FHP Director Megan Hammond, Pittsburgh HUD Field Office Director Michael Horvath &amp; Congresswoman Summer Lee (video, 29 min)
Keynote on Criminal History by Relman Colfax civil rights attorney Sara Pratt (video, 58 min)
Panel Discussion on Criminal History featuring Megan Hammond, Sara Pratt, LaWana Butler of Foundation of HOPE and Jay Dworin of Cloudburst Group (video, 46 min)
Presentation on Language Access by Brenda Green of Jewish Family &amp; Community Services (video, 53 min)
Panel Discussion on Language Access featuring Rachel Shepherd, Simone Vecchio of Hello Neighbor, DeJonna Bates of the Community Justice Project and Christina Ballarta Silva of the Latino Community Center (video, 45 min)

jasujazumdinski
"Fair Housing Connection: A Fair Housing Summit Bridging the Gaps Between People, Programs and Policies"
On April 28-29, 2023, fair housing advocates, professionals and the general public gathered both digitally and in person at the Homewood-Brushton YMCA to discuss fair housing in Pittsburgh.

Fair Housing for Families with Megan Hammond (Fair Housing Partnership) &amp; Rachel Shepherd (PghCHR) (video, 58 min)
Language Access and Fair Housing with Guillermo Velazquez (Pittsburgh Hispanic Development Corporation), Mary Jane McCullough (Global Wordsmiths) &amp; Feyisola Akintola (Pittsburgh Office of Immigrant &amp; Refugee Affairs) (video, 87 min)
Legal and Policy Remedies for Complex Problems in Fair Housing with Dianne Wainwright (Allegheny County Court of Common Pleas) &amp; Aaron Erb (Just Mediation Pittsburgh) (video, 85 min)
Fair Housing in Real Estate Transactions with David Dean (Howard Hanna), Joe Tomaceski (First Commonwealth Bank) &amp; Jam Hammond (PghCHR) (video, 58 min)
Fair Housing for Landlords and Property Managers with Kyle Webster (Action Housing) &amp; Traci Krzywicki (Berkshire Hathaway HomeServices) (video, 19 min)

Work Sharing &amp; HUD(show below)
Work-sharing is the word for how we work with the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) as a "substantially equivalent" entity. We investigate cases in their stead and they help support us in doing so with grants and an ongoing contract.

Affirmatively Furthering Fair Housing(show below)
One part of what we do with HUD when we use its funds, particularly those from the city's Community Development Block Grant, is a mandate called "affirmatively furthering fair housing." In 2020, Pittsburgh's AFFH (Affirmatively Furthering Fair Housing) Task Force released a final report after years of working on recommendations on how the City can engage in affirmatively furthering fair housing rather than only acting defensively by investigating and mediating housing discrimination after the fact. Here is the Final Report(PDF, 522KB) and for the main points, here's the Report Summary(PDF, 83KB).
Fair Housing Community Meeting Information(show below)
Thank you to everyone who attended our regional feedback sessions! At this time we are working to compile all of the community feedback to incorporate into the recommendations, and the final report of the Task Force.
Community Feedback Compiled During Our Regional Meetings
Below please find summaries of the Task Force recommendations discussed during the breakout sessions:

Landlord-Tenant Recommendations(PDF, 47KB)
Development &amp; Zoning Recommendations(PDF, 45KB)
Outreach, Education &amp; Training Recommendations(PDF, 35KB)

If you would like to review the complete draft recommendations, please contact us.
Overview(show below)
The Mission of the AFFH Task Force is to assist in jurisdictions’ efforts to affirmatively further fair housing through identifying barriers and disparities to fair housing and recommending policies to alleviate these barriers and disparities.
The Goal of the AFFH Task Force is to help assess current impediments to fair housing choice, and develop policy recommendations that affirmatively further fair housing (AFFH) for the upcoming Assessment of Fair Housing (AFH) for the City of Pittsburgh, and other jurisdictions.
The Affirmatively Furthering Fair Housing (AFFH) Task Force was initiated by the Pittsburgh Commission on Human Relations in 2013 as a result of the FY 2012 Update to the Analysis of Impediments to Fair Housing Choice (AI) study for the City of Pittsburgh. The AI recommended a “…Countywide Approach to Affirmatively Furthering Fair Housing,” and suggested strategies toward the goal of “providing housing and economic opportunities for low and moderate income persons and protected classes to live and work outside impacted areas (Pg. 11).” The strategies include the following:

7-A: The City and County’s Human Relations Commissions should establish an Affirmatively Furthering Fair Housing (AFFH) Task Force for the Pittsburgh Region with representatives from the City of Pittsburgh, Allegheny County, U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD), the City Housing Authority (HACP), the Allegheny County Housing Authority (ACHA), the other two federal CDBG Entitlement Communities in Allegheny County (McKeesport and Penn Hills), and other groups and organizations which promote fair housing.
7-B: “The four Federal Entitlement jurisdictions should promote and encourage the development of affordable housing and encourage the development of affordable housing throughout the Pittsburgh Region in areas that are not economically or racially impacted.”
7-C: “Improve intergovernmental and interagency cooperation in sharing all information pertaining to discrimination cases filed within the jurisdiction of the City of Pittsburgh (Pg. 11).”

Urban Design Ventures. Analysis of Impediments to Fair Housing Choice. United States. City of Pittsburgh. Department of City Planning. 22 Feb.2013. Web. 17 May 2016.
Learn more about Affirmatively Furthering Fair Housing.
AFFH Press Releases(show below)
April 11, 2018 press conference to release the Task Force community engagement plan. Pictured: Cheryl Fuller, Helen Gerhardt, Carlos Torres, and Paul O'Hanlon

April 10, 2018(PDF, 21KB)
January 5, 2018 - HUD Federal Register Notice Regarding AFH Extension
May 31, 2016(PDF, 55KB)

Videos(show below)
April 2018 50th Anniversary of the Fair Housing Act
April 2017 Fair Housing Month
The Commission held an exhibit in the City-County Building lobby to spread the word on fair housing. Commissioner Gerhardt, member of the Housing Committee and Chair of the Affirmatively Furthering Fair Housing Task Force, spoke to the City's communications team regarding the Commission's role in furthering fair housing in the City of Pittsburgh.

Special thanks to David Finer, Alex Fisher and their crew! See more of their work at @CityChannelPGH

Residential Segregation: What are the Remedies?
by Richard Rothstein (Introduction by Deputy Director Sarah Kinter)
September 21, 2016

09-21-2016 Video Link
Policing Reform, Community, and Ethical Leadership

by former Police Chief Cameron McLay
Links(show below)

The Housing and Urban Development Affirmatively Furthering Fair Housing (AFFH) Final Rule
HUD AFFH Guide Book(PDF, 136KB)
Affordable Housing Task Force Recommendations(PDF, 9MB)

jasujazumdinski
CHR Sections

About PghCHR
Commission Meetings
Public Portal
*NEW* LGBTQIA+ Housing Rights Research
Language Access Portal
Request a Presentation
Fair Housing
Equal Employment
Public Accommodations &amp; City Services
Updates to Protections
External Resources and Referrals
Contact Us

last updated: 08/11/2025
Back to top
Ready
jasujazumdinski