opens in new tab or window
Councilman Wilson Announces $58M in Med Debt Relief for 43K Residents
Published on July 28, 2025
City of Pittsburgh and Undue Medical Debt cancel $58 Million in Healthcare Debt
Pittsburgh, PA (July 28, 2025)—Councilman Bobby Wilson (District 1) proudly announced that more than $58 million in medical debt has been abolished for over 43,000 Pittsburgh residents, thanks to a partnership between the City of Pittsburgh and national nonprofit Undue Medical Debt (formerly RIP Medical Debt). This milestone follows legislation introduced and passed by Councilman Wilson in 2023, which authorized the City to contract with the nonprofit to identify and erase qualifying medical debt held by Pittsburghers.
The eligibility requirements for the health care debt relief stated that individuals must be residents of the City of Pittsburgh. They also had to meet at least one of the following two criteria: (1) have a household income between 0% and 400% of the federal poverty level, or (2) have medical debt that equals 5% or more of their annual income.
This medical debt relief is source-based and cannot be requested. There was no application process for this debt relief. Instead, residents who qualified will automatically receive a branded letter from Undue Medical Debt identifying which of their medical debt(s) have been forgiven. Letters will begin arriving this week.
Undue Medical Debt partners with hospitals, other healthcare providers, and debt collectors (the secondary market) nationwide to acquire portfolios of past-due medical bills owed by those least able to pay. The organization then fully abolishes the debt, acquiring qualified accounts in bulk for pennies or less on the dollar (one dollar donated erases, on average, $100 of medical debt) and removing a significant financial burden from individuals and families in need.
“I’m very proud that the City of Pittsburgh, in partnership with Undue Medical Debt has eliminated past-due medical debt for more than 43,000 Pittsburghers,” said Councilman Wilson. “With rising healthcare costs, uncertainty around Medicaid, and the recent reversal of the Biden Administration's efforts to remove medical debt from credit reports, this assistance is more important than ever. No one should be burdened simply because they got sick. Relieving this debt will have a significant impact on the lives of many Pittsburghers.” “Our communities are stronger when everyone can get the care they need, without fear of financial hardship,” said Undue Medical Debt President and CEO Allison Sesso. "I'm thrilled to partner with the City of Pittsburgh on this transformative medical debt relief initiative that will bring much-needed good news to thousands of residents. Medical debt is both a financial and emotional burden that forces families to make difficult decisions and often prevents patients from getting the care they need. This partnership will help lift some of that burden from those least able to pay these debts of necessity, and we hope recipients feel encouraged to re-engage with the healthcare system without fear of the cost." To learn more about Undue Medical Debt, visit their website at www.UndueMedicalDebt.org. For media inquiries related to Undue Medical Debt, contact Daniel Lempert, Vice President, Communication & Marketing at daniel.lempert@unduemedicaldebt.org or 516-419-9651.
Julianne Hluska
Chief of Staff
Councilman Bobby Wilson
Julianne.hluska@pittsburghpa.gov
412-676-5758
Tagged as:
City Council
Back to top
Ready
jasujazumdinski