opens in new tab or window
In This Section
City Planning
Mobility and Infrastructure  - About Mobility and Infrastructure
Maps
Plans
Current DOMI Projects
Transportation Development Review
Right-of-Way Management    - Right-of-Way Procedures Manual
ROW 311 and Code Enforcement
Applicant Guidance
Telecommunications
Small Cell Facilities
Encroachment Permit
Outdoor Dining & Operations Program
Permits, Licenses, and Inspections
Digital Equity In Pittsburgh
Small Business Resources
Public Works
Zoning
Geographic Information Systems, Mapping & Open Data
Procurement
PGH Lab
Sustainability
Applicant Guidance
The table below lists DOMI’s permits, licenses, and plan reviews. You can find a permit, license, or plan review type by browsing the table below or by using the search function. For example, if you wanted to find the City’s Barricade Permit, you could search for barricade, permit, construction, or staging.
The table includes links to information sheets or webpages that provide more details about specific permits, licenses, and plan reviews.
Additionally, the following documents outline information about DOMI’s processes and business practices, such as procedures and standards pertaining to working in the public right-of-way (ROW), fees and how they are calculated, required inspections and what they entail, and more.
ROW Procedures Manual(PDF, 2MB)
2025 ROW Fee Schedule(PDF, 367KB)
Maximum Permit Durations(PDF, 286KB)
Construction Details(PDF, 2MB)
Rules & Regulations(PDF, 344KB)
Document Guide(PDF, 179KB)
Inspection Guide(PDF, 139KB)
No Parking Guidance(PDF, 218KB)
For questions, DOMI’s remote customer service hours are Monday – Friday from 9am to 3pm via our permit phone line at 412-255-2370 and the OneStopPGH portal chat. You can also find us in person at the permit counter located at 412 Boulevard of the Allies, from 9-3 Monday, Thursday, and Friday or 9-12 Tuesday and Wednesday. Email us anytime at domipermits@pittsburghpa.gov.
Note: For permits issued in metered parking zones, applicants must contact the Pittsburgh Parking Authority at 412-560-2555. You will be faxed a form requesting the address, number of spaces, meter numbers and the duration of the scheduled outage. There is a per meter charge for this service.
We continue to create and revise our materials to serve you best. Please check back regularly for updates.
OneStopPGH Application
Previous column Next column