Skip to main content
opens in new tab or window
District 6 In the News
District 6 Press Release

Receive Email Updates

Copy the code below and paste it into your blog or Web page:

close

Archived News(show below)
URA's Small Contractor Line of Credit Program
Published: 12/22/2022

UPMC Mercy &amp; Builders Guild of WPA Career Events.(PDF, 565KB)
Published: 08/27/2018
Councilman Lavelle will soon be hosting a series of Career Events with UPMC, and Builders Guild of Western PA. With the world class UPMC Vision and Rehabilitation Hospital at UPMC Mercy expected to begin later this year career, opportunities in union construction and at UPMC Mercy are available for those with the desire and dedication to build sustainable and well-paying careers. These events are available so that local residents can learn about, apply and be considered for the many positions presently.

March Employment Newsletter(PDF, 151KB)
Published: 03/19/2018

Public Hearing Scheduled on Noise Code Amendments for February 14
Published: 01/27/2017
In response to increasing complaints from Downtown residents about overnight construction noise, Councilman Lavelle has been working with the City Planning Department on legislation that would limit heavy impact construction between the hours of 8am-6pm. The amendment to City Code is part of an overhaul of the Noise Code that is currently under consideration by Council.
A Public Hearing on the noise code amendments has been scheduled for February 14 at 1:30pm in Council Chambers. This is an opportunity for citizens to come speak to Council on the proposed changes to the noise code. Those who register in advance to speak get 3 minutes, while those who show up to speak without registering get 1 minute. To register, contact the City Clerk office at 412-255-2142.
For a copy of the ordinance, click here.

Council Passes Housing Opportunity Fund
Published: 12/20/2016
Councilman Lavelle legislated the creation of a Housing Opportunity Fund for the city of Pittsburgh. The ordinance requires the city to set aside a minimum of $10 million each year for the creation and preservation of affordable housing. The fund will help stabilize and foster mixed-income neighborhoods, encouraging newcomers and helping long-timers stay put amid higher property values, taxes and market pressures. Aid offerings could include down-payment assistance, home rehabilitation and foreclosure prevention.
To access a copy of the legislation, click here.
jasujazumdinski
D6 Press Release

Sign Up

Neighborhood Newsletters

District 6 - Sign Up
African American - Sign Up
Downtown - Sign Up
Hill District - Sign Up
North Side - Sign Up
Oakland - Sign Up
Uptown - Sign Up

last updated: 07/10/2025
Back to top
Ready
jasujazumdinski