opens in new tab or window
In This Section
Mayor
City Controller
City Council
Boards, Authorities, Commissions
Legal Services
Jobs
Finance & Budget  - Campaign Finances
Dog Licenses
Fee Schedule
Management & Budget
New Business Registration
Pilot Home Buying Program
Real Estate
Taxes    - Business Tax Compliance Letter
Property Tax Worksheet
Real Estate Tax Certification Letter
Real Estate Taxes
Tax FAQs
Tax Forms
Waiver and Refund Request
Contacts & Information
Real Estate Tax Delinquency
Are your City and School taxes Delinquent?
All prior year delinquent City, Library and Parks real estate taxes are remaining with the City of Pittsburgh. For information regarding your delinquent City, Library and Parks real estate taxes, please contact the Department of Finance at 412-255-2525.
All prior year delinquent School real estate taxes have been turned over to Jordan Tax Service, Inc. Please contact Jordan Tax Service, Inc. at 412-345-7960 to inquire about making payment arrangements for delinquent School real estate taxes.
Tax Delinquency Report?
The complete listing of all delinquencies can be found here(XLSX, 3MB).
Disclaimer
The information appearing on this website has been provided by the Real Estate Division of the Department of Finance of the City of Pittsburgh and The Pittsburgh School District solely for the benefit and convenience of the taxpayer/owner, and is not intended for any other use or purpose.
Although the information provided on this website will be periodically updated, any such changes will be made no more than once per week.
The user is cautioned that this website may not correctly identify the current owner(s) of record of a parcel of real property if title to a parcel has been transferred and the City of Pittsburgh has not yet been officially notified of said transfer and the identity(ies) of the new owner(s) by the Office of Property Assessments of Allegheny County.
The amounts shown as delinquent City of Pittsburgh and/or School District of Pittsburgh real estate taxes are based upon assessment information provided to the City by the Office of Property Assessments. Therefore, said amounts may not reflect increases or reductions in taxes resulting from assessment appeals which have been decided by the Board of Property Assessment Appeals and Review or the Court of Common Pleas of Allegheny County if the City has not yet received formal written notice of said assessment changes from the Office of Property Assessments. If the amount of the City and School Delinquency is less than $50.00 the account may not be displayed. In addition, the amounts shown as delinquent City of Pittsburgh and School District of Pittsburgh real estate taxes may not reflect payments on accounts which have been made after the date that this website was last updated or which have not yet been processed.
The taxpayer/owner is encouraged to notify the Real Estate Division of the Department of Finance if the taxpayer/owner believes that any of the information appearing on this website is incorrect or incomplete. Such notice should be in writing and should be forwarded to:
City of Pittsburgh
City County Building Real Estate Department, 1st Floor
414 Grant Street
Pittsburgh, PA 15219
last updated: 09/04/2025
Back to top
Ready
jasujazumdinski