opens in new tab or window
In This Section
Trash & Recycling
311
A - Z: Frequently Visited
ADA & Disability Rights  - Take Our Accessibility Survey
Disability Resources Center
Statutes & Policies
City County Task Force on Disability
Make an Accommodations Request
CCB Accessibility Entrance
File a Grievance
OEP News
ADA FAQs
Disability Rights Brochure
Disability Rights Brochure: Screen Reader Accessible Version
Snow Removal
Road Maintenance
Food Programs
Pets & Animals
Community Programming
Immigrant and Refugee Affairs
Tree Resources
File a Grievance
This Grievance Procedure was established to meet the requirements of the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA). It may be used by anyone who wishes to file a complaint alleging discrimination on the basis of disability in employment, practices and policies or the provision of services, activities, programs or benefits by the City of Pittsburgh. For employment-related matters, all City employees and/or applicants for City employment should refer to the separate ADA Accommodations Policies available on the ADA webpage.
The complaint should be submitted by the grievant and/or his/her designee as soon as possible, but no later than 60 calendar days after the alleged violation to:
Alternative means of filing complaints, such as personal interviews or a tape recording of the complaint will be made available for persons with disabilities upon request.
jasujazumdinski
Grievance Procedure
After receipt of the complaint, the ADA Coordinator will meet with the grievant to discuss the complaint and the possible solutions. The ADA Coordinator will respond in writing, and when appropriate, in a format accessible to the grievant. The response will explain the position of the City of Pittsburgh and offer options for substantive resolution of the complaint.
If the response by the ADA Coordinator does not satisfactorily resolve the issue, the grievant and/or their designee may appeal the decision of the ADA Coordinator after receipt of the response to the Manager, Mayor’s Office of Equal Protection, who will convene the appropriate City departments and personnel to review and address the appeal.
After receipt of the appeal, the Manager, Mayor’s Office of Equal Protection will meet with the grievant to discuss the complaint and possible resolutions. After the meeting, the Manager, Mayor’s Office of Equal Protection will respond in writing, and when appropriate, in a format accessible to the grievant, with a final resolution of the complaint.
The City of Pittsburgh will keep all written complaints received by the ADA Coordinator and appeals to the Manager, Mayor’s Office of Equal Protection, as well as all responses from the ADA Coordinator and Manager, Mayor’s Office of Equal Protection, for at least three years.
jasujazumdinski
Grievance Form
Instructions: Please fill out the form completely. Once you have done so, please hit “submit.” If a required field does not apply, please enter “N/A.” If you do not know the information under required filed, please enter “unknown.”
Loading form...
last updated: 05/02/2025
Back to top
Ready
jasujazumdinski