Skip to main content
opens in new tab or window
In This Section

City Planning
Mobility and Infrastructure  - About Mobility and Infrastructure
Maps
Plans
Current DOMI Projects
Transportation Development Review
Right-of-Way Management    - Right-of-Way Procedures Manual
ROW 311 and Code Enforcement
Applicant Guidance
Telecommunications
Small Cell Facilities
Encroachment Permit
Outdoor Dining &amp; Operations Program

Permits, Licenses, and Inspections
Digital Equity In Pittsburgh
Small Business Resources
Public Works
Zoning
Geographic Information Systems, Mapping &amp; Open Data
Procurement
PGH Lab
Sustainability

Outdoor Dining &amp; Operations Program
Outdoor Dining &amp; Retail License
Outdoor Dining &amp; Retail License applications can now be found on OneStopPGH.
Applicant Guidance(PDF, 829KB)
What is the Outdoor Dining &amp; Retail License?
On February 17, 2022, Mayor Ed Gainey signed Ordinance 2022-0073, which creates new standards for Outdoor Retail and Dining in the City of Pittsburgh. This change comes after The City streamlined its review process of outdoor dining and retail to accommodate COVID-19 safety measures under the emergency declaration, in order to support our business community, especially restaurants, during trying economic times.
These new standards guidelines give authority to the Department of Mobility and Infrastructure (DOMI), through the issuance of licenses, to permits the use of portion(s) of the public right-of-way for food and retail services. The new Outdoor Dining and Retail License streamlines regulations, standards, and procedures for outdoor dining or retail activities to better serve our business community while also putting into place new expectations for license holders to maintain accessibility, appearance, safety and maintenance a part of the privilege for the use of public space.
This guidance applies to the public ROW under the stewardship of DOMI. It does not extend to any public lot, park, other public property, or private property. Other approvals from the City of Pittsburgh Department of Permits, Licenses, and Inspections (PLI), Allegheny County Health Department (ACHD), Pennsylvania Liquor Control Board (PLCB), or others may still be required. Other permits and licenses referenced in this document are not comprehensive.
Applications for retail display with four (4) seats or fewer under this subsection shall be exempt from site plan requirements of this chapter as long as they can demonstrate that they meet all requirements in Placement and Design Requirements for Use of Sidewalk in § 425.03.
jasujazumdinski
Important Resources

Outdoor Dining at a Glance(PDF, 206KB)
Permitted barrier(PDF, 233KB)
Terms and Conditions(PDF, 122KB)
Training Webinar Presentation(PDF, 2MB)

Required Application Information

OneStopPGH registration
Business name and address
Hours of operation
Site Plan(PDF, 621KB) (see requirements on page 10)
Three photos of the proposed Outdoor Dining &amp; Retail area
Certificate of Occupancy for the business
Certificate of Insurance
Signed Terms and Conditions(PDF, 122KB)

Locations of all Permitted Outdoor Dining and Retail
Interactive Legend

Extension of Premises for Food Prep
last updated: 04/23/2025
Back to top
Ready
jasujazumdinski