opens in new tab or window
In This Section
City Planning  - About City Planning
City Planning Meeting Calendar
City Planning Public Notices
Commissions and Boards
Historic Preservation Program
Public Art Program
Neighborhood Planning    - Who's My Neighborhood Planner?
Neighborhood Plan Guide
Public Engagement Guide
Comprehensive Planning Process
Master & Neighborhood Plans
City Planning Projects
City Planning Programs
Development Review Process Guides
Mobility and Infrastructure
Permits, Licenses, and Inspections
Digital Equity In Pittsburgh
Small Business Resources
Public Works
Zoning
Geographic Information Systems, Mapping & Open Data
Procurement
PGH Lab
Sustainability
Neighborhood Planning
Neighborhood planners act as liaisons between City government and the community for most planning processes. Neighborhood planners participate in, and often coordinate, community plans. This group of planners acts as go-to people for explanations of zoning, development, transportation and other planning-related matters.
Whether you're an individual or a representative of a community organization, neighborhood planners are here to help.
Planning Education Series(show below)
This is a series of informational sessions coordinated by DCP to build up knowledge for the upcoming neighborhood plan process. Each session focuses on a different topic area. Most often, the series will be held in the neighborhood where there is a neighborhood planning process about to begin.
Registered Community Organizations (RCOs)(show below)
The registered community organization program establishes a set of standards for community-based organizations. If the organization meets these standards, it can initiate a process where it follows the standards in this guide to create a neighborhood plan that may be adopted by the Planning Commission.
Public Engagement Guide(show below)
The public engagement guide outlines a framework for how the City should conduct engagement efforts throughout the next phases of the comprehensive planning process and establishes guidelines for improving the approach to engagement more broadly. The guide was developed through a collaboration of residents, community organizations, and City Planning. It is designed to help increase engagement with the planning process.
Neighborhood Plan Guide(show below)
In collaboration with public agencies and community planning partners, City Planning has developed the Neighborhood Plan Guide to establish a framework for how to create high-quality and consistent neighborhood plans. This guide creates a standard for the development of neighborhood plans that can be adopted by the Planning Commission. The City of Pittsburgh will initiate these planning processes in most instances and will use this document to guide its work. Registered Community Organizations can also initiate the neighborhood planning process and work with public agencies to follow these standards and adopt a plan.
jasujazumdinski
Current Master & Neighborhood Plans
The EcoInnovation District
The Manchester Chateau Neighborhood Plan
The Greater Hazelwood Neighborhood Plan
Homewood Community Plan
The Oakland Plan
Greater Hill District Master Plan
Sheraden Park Master Plan
South Side Park Master Plan
Who's My Neighborhood Planner?
Neighborhood Plan Guide
Public Engagement Guide
Comprehensive Planning Process
last updated: 08/20/2025
Back to top
Ready
jasujazumdinski