Skip to main content
opens in new tab or window
ADA &amp; Disability Rights

The Americans with Disabilities Act, the Pennsylvania Human Relations Act, and other laws ensure freedom from discrimination on the basis of disability in employment and provision of government services. The Mayor’s Office of Equal Protection ensures City compliance with these laws and works to make Pittsburgh accessible to all people, inclusive of their disabilities.
This website provides resources that support ADA/PHRA compliance and disability rights, including our ADA grievance form and ADA accommodation request form, links to our EngagePgh ADA page, our soon-to-launch Disabilities Resources Center and more.
Take Our Accessibility Survey\
\
The ADA Transition Plan Community Engagement Survey seeks input to guide the City of Pittsburgh's efforts to enhance accessibility for people with disabilities.
Disability Resources Center\
\
Links provided by the City and disability community for noncommercial, informational purposes.
Statutes &amp; Policies\
\
The City of Pittsburgh has adopted several policies to assist people with disabilities in accessing City services, programs, and activities.
City County Task Force on Disability\
\
The City-County Task Force on Disabilities is a 13-member panel of advocates, service providers, and consumers appointed by the Mayor and County Executive who advise the City and County on issues that affect people with disabilities in the region.
Make an Accommodations Request\
\
The City of Pittsburgh's Request for Accommodation form ensures compliance with the ADA, enabling equal access to employment, services, and facilities without extra cost to individuals with disabilities.
CCB Accessibility Entrance
File a Grievance\
\
The Grievance Procedure allows individuals to file ADA-related complaints regarding disability discrimination in City of Pittsburgh employment, services, programs, or benefits, with employment-specific accommodations detailed on the ADA webpage.
OEP News\
\
Office of Equal Protection News
ADA FAQs\
\
The City of Pittsburgh ADA Coordinator ensures that all citizens have the opportunity to participate meaningfully in the programs and services offered by the City of Pittsburgh.
Disability Rights Brochure
Disability Rights Brochure: Screen Reader Accessible Version
Mayor's Office of Equal Protection
414 Grant Street, 5th Floor
Pittsburgh PA 15219
ADA@pittsburghpa.gov
last updated: 06/11/2025
Back to top
Ready
jasujazumdinski