Skip to main content
opens in new tab or window
In This Section

Trash &amp; Recycling  - Collection Schedule and Newsletter
Curbside Pick Up
Commercial Recycling
Special Event Recycling
Drop-Off Info &amp; Additional Resources
Anti-Litter and Illegal Dumping
311
A - Z: Frequently Visited
ADA &amp; Disability Rights
Snow Removal
Road Maintenance
Food Programs
Pets &amp; Animals
Community Programming
Immigrant and Refugee Affairs
Tree Resources

Yard Debris

The City of Pittsburgh offers special curbside collection days twice a year to promote environmentally-friendly disposal of your seasonal yard debris, as well as year round drop off.
Saturday, April 26th is our Spring Yard Waste Curbside collection event. Scroll down for a full list of what is accepted and not allowed. If you miss this event we have three locations where you can drop off yard waste for free.
Please check the collection schedule or visit PGH.ST to see what day your curbside pickup falls on
We will collect the following items curbside:

Leaves
Branches (4" diameter or less)
Brush
Grass

Set-Out

Items must be in paper bags weighing less than 35 pounds. No plastic bags, please!
Bundle all branches with fiber twine or natural rope in lengths of 5 feet or less
Set these items out at the curb at your regular collection spot before 6:00 a.m. on the morning of the collection day.

Yard waste that does not meet the collection guidelines will be left at the curb.
jasujazumdinski
Drop-Off Locations
City residents may also bring their yard waste to one of our participating drop-off centers, year-round. No drop-offs by commercial haulers are accepted. The fee structure varies by vehicle type:

Cars and SUVs (without trailers): Free
Pick-ups, vans and any pull-behind trailers: $22.00
Dump trucks and large box vans: $54.00
Requires prior approval from the DPW Director.

Payment Method:

No cash is accepted at drop-off locations.
Payments must be made by check or money order only.
Checks are to be made out to Treasurer, City of Pittsburgh .

These locations also accept tires. Only two (2) tires are allowed per day, per resident, for drop off and must have rims removed beforehand.
Drop-off centers are open Monday-Friday and may offer Saturday hours. Call each center for details and hours.
East End Drop-Off Center
412-665-3609
6814 Hamilton Ave\
\
Pittsburgh, PA 15208
Hazelwood Drop-Off Center 412-422-6524
40 Melanchton St\
\
Pittsburgh, PA 15207
West End Drop-Off Center 412-937-3054
1330 Hassler St\
\
Pittsburgh, PA 15220
Accepted Items

Leaves
Grass
Plants
Tree trimmings
Branches
Shrubs - loose or placed in paper bags
Christmas trees - no lights or decorations

Unaccepted Items

Plastic bags
Metal/wire
Stones, dirt or rocks
Manure
Garbage

jasujazumdinski
Additional Resources
If you are looking for additional resources to dispose of yard debris, please visit this list of Commercial Haulers(PDF, 64KB). We recommend calling the facility beforehand due to the constant changes in the waste industry.
last updated: 04/07/2025
Back to top
Ready
jasujazumdinski