opens in new tab or window
Market Square
Pittsburgh's Market Square is the heart of Downtown Pittsburgh. Located between Fifth Avenue and PPG Place, the historic Square is home to restaurants and entertainment. It is a popular gathering spot for civic events and the Downtown community. The Square is programmed in cooperation with the Pittsburgh Downtown Partnership.
Market Square History(show below)
Market Square was laid out by surveyor George Wood in 1784. The first Allegheny County Courthouse was constructed in the square along with a horseshoe-shaped market in the 1790s. In 1852 both structures were replaced with a new Pittsburgh City Hall and market, called Diamond Market. Finally, in 1914, these structures were replaced with a final market house that was razed in 1961.
Over the decades the square was remodeled and reimagined, transforming into an open-air multipurpose space in the heart of the city. Traffic through the square was eliminated in 2009 to create a more pedestrian-friendly space.
Summer in the Square is a beloved part of the Downtown Pittsburgh experience. Events sponsored by the City of Pittsburgh and Downtown Partnership fill the Square with life each year.
Stay tuned for updates on our 2021 season!
Market Square Farmers Market(show below)
The Pittsburgh Downtown Partnership operates the beloved Market Square Farmers Market.
This year, the Market will operate on Thursdays from May 13th through October 28th from 10:00 AM to 2 PM. Rain or shine the Market offers regionally grown produce and small-batch foods.
Safety will be the top priority, and guests will be required to adhere to all health guidelines.
Vendor applications from the Pittsburgh Downtown Partnership are now open.
Market Square Winter Events(show below)
Each winter, Market Square is transformed into a one of a kind Christmas village.
The Peoples Gas Holiday Market is a festive and fun event where the public can browse local vendors for unique holiday gifts.
Learn more at the Downtown Pittsburgh Holidays website.
jasujazumdinski
Location
Market Square, Pittsburgh, PA 15222  View Map
Skip to below map
40.4407817,-80.00248359999999
Market Square ,
Pittsburgh, PA 15222
Market Square ,
Pittsburgh, PA 15222
Market Square
Skip to above map
Tagged as:
Community Parks
Park Details
Amenities
Commerce
Historic Landmark
Open Public Space
Public Events
Restaurants
Tourist Destination
Tourist Landmark
Back to top
Ready
jasujazumdinski