opens in new tab or window
In This Section
City Planning
Mobility and Infrastructure
Permits, Licenses, and Inspections  - Applications & Forms
OneStopPGH
Permits    - About PLI
Residential Permits
Commercial Permits
Permit Process
Work Not Requiring a Permit
Licenses
Bulletins
Community Resources
Code Enforcement
Condemned Buildings
PLI Fees
Building Codes
Appeals
PLI Contacts
Announcements
Registrations
Digital Equity In Pittsburgh
Small Business Resources
Public Works
Zoning
Geographic Information Systems, Mapping & Open Data
Procurement
PGH Lab
Sustainability
Registered Third Party Agencies
PLI requires the following limited Third Party Agency (TPA) services:
TPA Inspection of stormwater permits issued after 5/25/22.
TPA Inspection of residential electrical permits issued before 1/1/21.
TPA Inspection of commercial electrical permits.
These TPA Services are temporary and may be repealed or amended as necessary by PLI. No other TPA services are authorized or accepted by PLI. Please see PLI's TPA Policy(PDF, 528KB) for additional information.
TPA & TPA Inspector Registration
PLI registration and approval are required prior to providing TPA services. To register or renew as a TPA or TPA Inspector please submit a completed Third Party Agency Registration Form(PDF, 144KB) to pliconstructionsupervisors@pittsburghpa.gov. Please see PLI's TPA Policy(PDF, 528KB) for additional TPA responsibilities and requirements.
jasujazumdinski
TPA Permit Requirements
The permit holder is responsible to engage a registered TPA and TPA Inspector to perform inspections on behalf of PLI. Please refer to PLI's registered and approved TPA and TPA Inspectors(PDF, 533KB). A TPA discount per PLI's Current Fee Schedule is applicable to permits that require TPA services.
The permit holder shall provide the TPA Inspector Assignment Form(PDF, 127KB) prior to the issuance of the permit. Please see PLI's TPA Policy(PDF, 528KB) for additional permit holder responsibilities and requirements.
The TPA Inspector shall provide a digital copy of all TPA Inspection Reports(PDF, 116KB) to the permit holder. The permit holder shall submit the TPA inspection documentation via the OneStopPGH portal as a close-out document and request the "TPA Report Submission" per PLI's TPA Policy. Requesting this inspection notifies PLI that you have submitted TPA inspection Documentation. Failure to take this action results in the inspection not being recorded in OneStopPGH and may delay the overall progress of the development project.
last updated: 07/01/2025
Back to top
Ready
jasujazumdinski