Skip to main content
opens in new tab or window
In This Section

City Planning
Mobility and Infrastructure
Permits, Licenses, and Inspections  - Applications &amp; Forms
OneStopPGH    - Reference
OneStopPGH Video Tutorials
Building &amp; Development Application
OneStopPGH Contacts
Permit Amendments
Plan Review Meeting
Structure Types

Permits
Licenses
Bulletins
Community Resources
Code Enforcement
Condemned Buildings
PLI Fees
Building Codes
Appeals
PLI Contacts
Announcements
Registrations
Digital Equity In Pittsburgh
Small Business Resources
Public Works
Zoning
Geographic Information Systems, Mapping &amp; Open Data
Procurement
PGH Lab
Sustainability

Plan Review Meeting
PLI offers the opportunity for applicants and Design Professionals to meet with our staff before submitting permit applications for a project. A Preliminary Plan Review Meeting is not a requirement for permit review and/or issuance. This service is intended to help applicants navigate the permit process for complex projects, code interpretations, or process questions.
For a full breakdown of expectations, requirements, and process see PLI's Preliminary Plan Review Meeting bulletin.
The calculator below provides an easy way to calculate your Preliminary Plan Review Meeting fee. This fee only covers the Preliminary Plan Review Meeting, and does not include any subsequent fees for required permits. Please see our Fee Schedule Page for the most up-to-date PLI Fee Schedule, Fee definitions, information on how to calculate your value of construction, and more.
PRM Fee Calculator
Loading…

PLI Plan Review Meeting Fee Calculator
Type of Structure:
?
Commercial
Residential
Value of Construction:
?
Calculate
Reset Form
Results:
Please enter all information in the fields to the left. After you've entered your information, click or tap the "Calculate" button below.
Click or tap the question mark buttons for more information about each field. Click or tap the help message to dismiss it.
last updated: 04/23/2025
Back to top
Ready
jasujazumdinski