Skip to main content
opens in new tab or window
In This Section

City Planning  - About City Planning
City Planning Meeting Calendar
City Planning Public Notices
Commissions and Boards
Historic Preservation Program
Public Art Program
Neighborhood Planning
Master &amp; Neighborhood Plans    - Sheraden Park Master Plan
South Side Park Master Plan
Ecoinnovation District
Greater Hazelwood Neighborhood Plan
Greater Hill District Master Plan
Homewood Community Plan
Manchester Chateau Neighborhood Plan
The Oakland Plan

City Planning Projects
City Planning Programs
Development Review Process Guides
Mobility and Infrastructure
Permits, Licenses, and Inspections
Digital Equity In Pittsburgh
Small Business Resources
Public Works
Zoning
Geographic Information Systems, Mapping &amp; Open Data
Procurement
PGH Lab
Sustainability

The Plan
Community leaders and members involved in action teams worked together to develop recommendations in response to the priorities that were defined by public meetings. These recommendations were further developed, consolidated and prioritized in order to develop a clear path for the community to achieve its goals.
Read the Homewood Community Plan(PDF, 53MB)
Community(show below)
Community lies at the heart of a neighborhood. For a neighborhood to be truly successful, it must deliver a high quality of life to its people so that they can thrive. Access to quality food, education, health care, and economic opportunity make up the goals and strategies in this section. These six goals lay the groundwork for the Homewood Comprehensive Community Plan to success by ensuring that community members have the opportunity to share in the benefits of redevelopment.

Improve fresh and healthy food access.
Improve education quality for all Homewood students.
Create more and better out-of-school time options.
Organize community support teams that focus on public health and safety.
Increase career readiness and placement.
Promote and preserve Homewood’s African-American heritage and culture.

Development(show below)
The development recommendations represent many of the physical projects that will allow the community to thrive. The nine goals in this section seek to protect existing residents and homeowners, create opportunities for local, small business owners, and build new, high-quality homes. The strategies also seek to ensure that existing community members have a say in the development that occurs in their community and have the opportunities to benefit and build wealth through that development.

Focus on neighborhood level small business technical assistance.
Bring Homewood’s regulatory framework into alignment with previous planning and shape Homewood’s future growth.
Manage vacant properties comprehensively.
Encourage community led and driven development.
Renovate existing vacant housing to provide Homewood residents with pathways to homeownership.
Use innovative and targets housing development to meet the needs of specific household demographics in Homewood.
Implement green building and energy efficiency programs and standards to reduce cost burdens for existing and future residents.
Prevent displacement through affordable housing development, proactive policy, and stabilization of existing residents.
Create Homewood-specific design standards for new development.

Mobility(show below)
Mobility provides connections to opportunity, both within the neighborhood and to the rest of the region. Access to jobs, food, education, and health care are key to the three goals in this section. Although there has been some investment in the community’s transportation system, especially near schools and the transitway, there are still significant opportunities to improve mobility in Homewood.

Create a consistent, ADA compliant network of sidewalks that facilitates economic development and serves the needs of community members.
Ensure Homewood residents have access to high quality busway that increases economic opportunity and supports everyday needs.
Create Safe Routes to School.

Infrastructure(show below)
Management supports a community. Parks and open spaces, stormwater infrastructure and utilities all create opportunities for development and support a high quality of life for residents. The three goals in this section support all of the other goals in the Homewood Comprehensive Community Plan through the development of infrastructure that supports community resilience.

Improve access to and quality of open spaces.
Improve local air quality.
Encourage the expansion of stormwater management.

Implementation(show below)
The Homewood Comprehensive Community Plan articulates a vision that is comprehensive and intended to guide improvements to the neighborhood. Given the complexity of many of the proposed improvements, implementation of the Community Plan relies on a phasing strategy that prioritizes strategies easier to implement. There is a need to maintain interest and momentum over time, and the implementation of short-term goals is critical to enabling the intermediate and long-term goals to be realized.
last updated: 04/23/2025
Back to top
Ready
jasujazumdinski