Skip to main content
opens in new tab or window
Bobby Wilson, District 1
Councilmember
Councilman Wilson Continues Efforts to Fund the Pittsburgh Land Bank

Telephone(412) 255-2135
Emaildistrict1@pittsburghpa.gov

Introduction
Councilman Bobby Wilson proudly represents Pittsburgh’s District 1, which includes the Northside, the Strip District, and parts of Downtown. Elected in 2020, he has focused on strengthening neighborhoods through strategic investments in parks, sidewalk infrastructure, and traffic calming measures. He led efforts to expand the Local Economic Revitalization Tax Assistance (LERTA) program to incentivize development in Downtown, and championed legislation to support more flexible attached housing options throughout the city.
As Chair of the Land Use and Economic Development Committee, Councilman Wilson has advanced key initiatives such as expanding permitted uses in zoning to support the growth of childcare facilities, safeguarding reproductive rights through local legislation, and authoring a bill to allow supervised youth camping programs in public parks. He also serves as a Director on the Board of the Pittsburgh Parking Authority and the Chairman on the Board of the Pittsburgh Land Bank.
In his role as President Pro Tempore, Councilman Wilson serves in City Council leadership, helping guide legislative priorities and support collaborative governance.
For more information on Councilman Wilson's initiatives and to stay updated on District 1 developments, please visit our Newsletters and Press Releases page.

Newsletters &amp; Press Releases
Contact &amp; Staff
Neighborhoods

jasujazumdinski
District 1 Map

Office Hours
Our office is open Monday through Friday from 9:30 AM to 5:00 PM and is available to assist with inquiries, concerns, and constituent services.
Telephone: (412) 255-2135
Email: district1@pittsburghpa.gov
District 1 Newsletters and Press Releases
Receive the latest news and events from District 1 straight to your inbox.
Sign up for the District 1 Newsletter!
Sign up for District 1 Press Releases!
Feedback Form
Please contact our office directly at District1@pittsburghpa.gov or use the feedback form below. We look forward to hearing from you.
Click here to view form.
Back to top
Ready
jasujazumdinski