Skip to main content
opens in new tab or window
Startup Resources

-Let's Get Started-
Explore the resources below for help with each step to starting a business. These are some broadly applicable tips, but personalized support is available every step of the way through confidential consulting, free and low-cost training, and ongoing support to entrepreneurs and small businesses. Pittsburgh is home to three nationally renowned Small Business Development Centers and a local network of mentors through SCORE Pittsburgh.
jasujazumdinski
Free Assistance from Experts

Chatham Center for Women's Entrepreneurship
Duquesne Small Business Development Center
University of Pittsburgh Small Business Development Center
Mentorship through SCORE Pittsburgh

Create A Business Plan(show below)
Craft and review your Business Plan. A business plan is a living document that serves as a roadmap for your business. You can find guidelines and templates to make your own business plan from the Small Business Administration (SBA) and SBDC Net. Any of Pittsburgh's renowned SBDCs and mentors with the Score Pittsburgh network (linked above) can help in this and every subsequent step.
SBA Business Plan Guide &amp; Examples
PA Business One-Stop Shop Business Plan Template
SBDC Business Plan Templates
Create a Business Plan
Test your Business Plan. Incubator and accelerator programs can provide you an opportunity to test, grow, and develop your business ideas. At the City, we have a government incubator program called PGH Lab where we engage startup companies to test their solutions for civic good and innovation.
PGH Lab
Incubator vs. Accelerator Programs
Join a network or association with like-minded individuals. There are a variety of professional networks and associations for different business areas and demographics of entrepreneurs with national and local reach. The Small Business Administration (SBA) maintains pages for different businesses that you can access below, alongside some examples of organizations focused on the Pittsburgh region.
Women-Owned Businesses
Native American-Owned Businesses
Veteran-Owned Businesses
LGBTQ+-Owned Businesses
Minority-Owned Businesses
African American Chamber of Commerce of Western Pennsylvania
Pittsburgh Metropolitan Area Hispanic Chamber of Commerce
Asian American Chamber of Commerce, Pittsburgh
Three Rivers Business Alliance
Name And Register Your Business(show below)
Determine your business structure. In order to register your own trade name, you must decide what legal structure your business will have (sole proprietorship, general partnership, corporation, etc). Your business structure will affect your legal responsibilities, so be sure to carefully consider and consult with others prior to making a decision.
Choose your Business Structure

Name Your Business. Choose a name that is unique, relevant, and easily accessible and identifiable for customers.
Verify the name you chose is available. If the name of your choice is already taken, you will need to search until a unique legal name is found.
Register your Fictitious Name. A fictitious name is a name that you refer to your business when conducting business if not the legal name you registered.

Confirm Business Name Availability
Register Fictitious Name
Register your business. Once you have identified a name for your business alongside a business plan, you can register your business. The PA Business One-Stop Shop site can help you identify what you need to start your with a one-stop registration guide and provide a custom checklist generator.
Create a Business Checklist
Basic Business Registration Overview
Apply for an Employer Identification Number (EIN), also known as a Federal Tax ID Number. If you are a sole proprietor, you may be able to use your Social Security Number instead.
Apply For an EIN
Register your business on Beacon. In order to qualify for City procurement opportunities, you must be registered on Beacon.
Registering a Allegheny County Business
Research required insurances. There are a variety of types of insurances you must have not only to protect you from potential losses and lawsuits, but also to uphold obligations established by law.
View PA Business Taxes
Retrieve Business Insurance
Register with Tax Authorities And Obtain Necessary Permits(show below)
Register with relevant tax authorities. Make sure that you have all of your documentation in order prior to starting business.
IRS Tax Information
PA Department of Revenue Tax Information
Pittsburgh Department of Finance Tax Information
Register for any relevant business related taxes. Ensure that you are in compliance with relevant business taxes. Access the State website to register and pay for business related taxes here.
Visit PA-100
Determine whether a special permit or license is required for your business. Depending on the nature of your business, you may require permits and licenses from the County.
Search at PA Business
Visit OneStopPGH
Create Checklist at PA Business
Finance Your Business(show below)
Determine your financing needs. To start your business, you will need money or capital to purchase equipment and run your operations. It is important, however to budget your expenses based off your needs. Having an accurate budget is important to appeal and qualify for loans and funding opportunities.
Calculate Costs at SBA
Identify incentive programs. Your business can benefit from incentive programs that allow you to lower your cost of doing business. Many incentives can be found in the form of tax credits.
Learn IRS Business Tax Credits
Identify funding opportunities. Once you determine your financing needs and applicable financial incentives, seek out different means of funding your business. Entrepreneurs in the City of Pittsburgh can access financing from agencies that offer more flexibility and, in some cases, lower interest rates than traditional lenders.
SBA Funding opportunities
URA funding opportunities
Invest PGH Resources - Fellow Funders
Find a Location(show below)
Find a location for your business. Be sure to consider taxes, zoning laws, and regulations alongside advantages of the location. Learn more at SBA’s business guide.
Identify a Business Location
Decide to lease or buy. Weigh your options and opportunities for your location as an asset.
Determine if Leasing or Buying is Best
Ensure your space is ADA compliant. ADA compliance is not only a legal requirement, but it is important to be inclusive so that your business is accessible to all potential customers.
View Americans with Disabilities Act "ADA" Policies
Hire Employees(show below)
Set up a payroll system and comply with relevant labor laws. Relevant statutes may include articles for sick leave, benefits, and minimum wage, for example. Employers must additionally verify employee eligibility and make reports on employee hiring.
PA Business One Stop Shop: Hiring Workers
SBA: Hiring and Managing Employees
I-9, Employment Eligibility Verification
Clarify insurance requirements. Department of Labor will help establish an unemployment insurance account and workers' compensation insurance if appropriate for your business.
PA Business Taxes
Federal Unemployment Tax
Open &amp; Operate(show below)
Give customers clear receipts and invoices. Show prices and print your business name and address.
Implement a Marketing and Sales Strategy
Perform required training for employees including sexual harassment prevention. Required training largely vary by state, but there are a variety of strongly recommended training for employees. Learn about HR training that are required and recommended.
Required &amp; Recommended Employee Training
Remain Compliant. It is important that your business remains compliant of its obligations such as taxes and relevant statutes, including the City of Pittsburgh's Paid Sick Days Act.
Paying Taxes
Remain Legally Compliant
Operating a Business in PA
Pittsburgh Paid Sick Days Act

Return to Small Business Resources

last updated: 08/15/2025
Back to top
Ready
jasujazumdinski