Skip to main content
opens in new tab or window
In This Section

City Planning
Mobility and Infrastructure
Permits, Licenses, and Inspections  - Applications &amp; Forms
OneStopPGH
Permits    - About PLI
Residential Permits
Commercial Permits
Permit Process
Work Not Requiring a Permit

Licenses
Bulletins
Community Resources
Code Enforcement
Condemned Buildings
PLI Fees
Building Codes
Appeals
PLI Contacts
Announcements
Registrations
Digital Equity In Pittsburgh
Small Business Resources
Public Works
Zoning
Geographic Information Systems, Mapping &amp; Open Data
Procurement
PGH Lab
Sustainability

Private Demolition
A demolition permit is required for the following work on a residential or commercial building or structure:

Demolish an entire building or structure.
Partial demolition of a building or structure.

For Non-Structural Interior Demolition (exclusive demolition of interior finishes and elements), please apply for a Building and Development Application (BDA).
Please see Permit Home for the definition of commercial structures and work types. Please see Work Not Requiring A Permit for work that can be performed without a PLI permit. Please visit our Contacts page for the Construction Inspector's contact information.
Please see PLI's Private Demolition Requirements(PDF, 399KB) and Private Demolition Application(PDF, 174KB).
Complete Demolition Work Types

Adjacent Structure Repair: applies to the complete demolition of a party wall structure where the party wall is required to be modified to be a weathertight assembly.
Primary Structure Demolition: applies to the complete demolition of a primary structure such as a house or commercial use structure.
Site Work: applies to grading required to return site to natural grade.
Utility Disconnect: applies to complete demolitions that include disconnection of utility services to the property.

jasujazumdinski
Partial Demolition Work Types

Adjacent Structure Repair: applies to the partial demolition of a party wall structure where the party wall is required to be modified to be a weathertight assembly. Note for residential structures, demolitions limited to accessory structures can be performed as a Building and Development Application with an addition/alteration work type.
Primary Structure Demolition: applies to the partial demolition of a primary structure such as a house or commercial use structure.
Site Work: applies to grading required to return the site to natural grade.
Utility Disconnect: applies to partial demolitions that include disconnection of utility services to the property.

Permit Process
See these web pages for additional information regarding the permitting process:

Permit Process

Application Submission

Applications for Commercial Structures require submission of drawings or narratives prepared and sealed by a PA-licensed architect or engineer that document:

Intended demolition operations: method of demolition, type of equipment to be used, and staging of equipment.
Protection measures for adjacent buildings and/or properties.
Protection measures for pedestrians in the public right of way.

All applications shall submit a site plan identifying: structures or portions of a structure that are to be demolished, property lines, adjacent structures on the subject site, and/or on adjacent properties.
A signed contract between the property owner and the license holder performing the work.
After submission of your application, you will be provided with a Public Notice Placard which is required to be posted on-site.
Application Review
Permit Issuance
A Certificate of Insurance (COI) is required:
With minimum coverage of $500,000 General Liability and $250,000 Property Damage.
The COI Description of Operations 'for the demolition of the structure at subject property address’.
The Certificate Holder shall be identified as PLI.

Permit Inspections
Permit Completion

Please see Other Agency Coordination for processes related to other agencies that may relate to your permit scope. For demolition permits:

Zoning Development Review
Zoning will review all demolition applications – a ZDR is not required.
Allegheny County Health Department (ACHD)
Removal of materials which contain asbestos materials may require an asbestos abatement permit application from ACHD.

last updated: 04/23/2025
Back to top
Ready
jasujazumdinski