Skip to main content
opens in new tab or window
In This Section

City Planning
Mobility and Infrastructure
Permits, Licenses, and Inspections  - Applications &amp; Forms
OneStopPGH
Permits
Licenses
Bulletins
Community Resources
Code Enforcement
Condemned Buildings
PLI Fees
Building Codes
Appeals
PLI Contacts
Announcements
Registrations
Digital Equity In Pittsburgh
Small Business Resources
Public Works
Zoning
Geographic Information Systems, Mapping &amp; Open Data
Procurement
PGH Lab
Sustainability

Announcements
Building &amp; Development Application
Posted on: 06/13/2024
The OneStopPGH Team is excited to announce the new Building &amp; Development Application! Beginning June 12th, 2024 the Building &amp; Development Application will replace the current Zoning Development Review Application and Building Permit Application. This streamlined application consolidates the building permit and zoning application into a single, unified application. If you're planning a construction project, this will typically be your initial step. After you submit the application, we will inform you of any additional permits required to complete your project.
Some of the important benefits of the new Building &amp; Development Application (BDA) include:

An application that requires no expertise in the construction process! This application uses simplified prompts that ask only for information relevant to your project.
Inter-agency review and coordination! Every BDA will be reviewed by each of the relevant departments. The departments will determine what is required for your project and will inform you of any additional required permits.
Co-applicants! The ability to add multiple applicants to your application so that anyone can respond to requests for more information or provide revisions.
No more Zoning Development Review (ZDR) Application! The reviews associated with the ZDR are now incorporated into the BDA to remove the need for you to apply twice for the same scope.

Customer User Interface Upgrade
Posted on: 04/26/2024
The OneStopPGH team is excited to announce a new customer portal upgrade! This change went live on  Monday, March 25th. This upgrade did not change any core functionality or application requirements. The system our users have learned is still the same, but it will now be more intuitive and easier to access.
Some of the more notable changes are as follows:

Modern design standards for increased accessibility and ease of use;
Better hosting with modern software will lead to faster loading and platform stability;
Multi-device support: OneStopPGH will be more accessible than over on smartphones, tablets, laptops, and PCs.

Coming Soon:

Automatic Language Translation to make OneStopPGH more accessible to those whose primary language isn’t English .

New tutorials for the upgraded customer portal can be found here.

last updated: 04/24/2025
Back to top
Ready
jasujazumdinski