Skip to main content
opens in new tab or window
PGH Lab
Open side Menu

Home
Benefits
Alumni
FAQ
Contact Us
Program Rules &amp; Regulations

PGH Lab

Connecting Pittsburgh Entrepreneurs with City Government
 PGH Lab is a six-month partnership program that connects local businesses with City of Pittsburgh departments to pilot innovative solutions.
Our program helps businesses grow while enhancing city services. We aim to make Pittsburgh more efficient, transparent, sustainable, and inclusive — one pilot at a time.
LEARN MORE
Please follow our LinkedIn for updates
August 25th - RFP Application Open
September 9th - Prebid Meeting
September 30th - RFP Application Close
Submit your RFP to PGH Lab 11.0 Here
Benefits
Financial
Support
Each company will receive a $25,000 stipend as payment for their participation in PGH Lab
Visibility &amp;
Credibility
Cohort companies gain exposure through City press communications and can showcase the City of Pittsburgh as a client
Pathway to
Government Sector
PGH Lab opens the door to future work as a vendor in the government sector
How it Works
⮚ Apply – Startups submit an application detailing their solution and how it aligns with the city’s work and priorities.
⮚ Get Matched – Selected companies are paired with an interested city department to run a pilot project.
⮚ Launch – Over six months, city employees try out the product or service, gathering feedback.
⮚ Evaluate &amp; Grow – Companies gain insights into city work, refine their offerings, and explore future opportunities with the city or other clients.
jasujazumdinski
What Our Alumni Say
“We leveraged the work at PGH Lab to attract investors with a proof of value.”

– Kloopify, Cohort 7
“[The program] allowed us to pilot our concept and gather crucial data about its efficacy.”

– Green Bean, Cohort 8
“Through our participation in PGH Lab, we have been able to expand our workshops into the historic Hill District.”

– Royally Fit, Cohort 7
Home
Benefits
Alumni
FAQ
Contact Us
Program Rules &amp; Regulations
last updated: 08/25/2025
Back to top
Ready
jasujazumdinski