Skip to main content
opens in new tab or window
In This Section

Parks  - Our Parks
For Kids
For Seniors    - Senior Community Centers
Healthy Active Living
Senior Lunch Program
Senior Games

Dog Parks
Tennis
CitiSports
Outdoor Activities
City Farms
Community Garden Plots
Pools
Events
Park Facilities
Special Events
Film &amp; Event Management
Park Permits
About Parks

Healthy Active Living

Health Active Living (HAL) is committed to ensuring that all persons 60 and older live active and healthy lives.
Citiparks Community Services operates 12 Healthy Active Living Centers (Senior Community Centers) open year round, Mondays through Fridays. Each center focuses on improving the lives of older Pittsburghers—physically, intellectually, socially, culturally and financially.
Building the Body
Healthy Active Living recognizes that health and wellness are key to the quality of life of our seniors. With this in mind HAL offers a variety of exciting physical activities and sports programs.
Please join us for horseshoe pitching, shuffleboard, bocce, darts, Wii bowling and more at our community centers.
To enhance healthy, active living, we offer spring games for ages 50+.
Exercise Resources from Retire Guide:

Exercises for Seniors Guide
Chair Exercises for Seniors Guide

Stretching the Mind
To foster the intellectual interests of seniors, Healthy Active Living offers a variety of classes in partnership with the Community College of Allegheny County.
Class topics include...

Computers
Exercise
the Arts
Tai Chi
Healthy Cooking
And more!

jasujazumdinski
Expanding the Knowledge of Others
Healthy Active Living recognizes the diverse nature of our community. To foster a better sense of community HAL has developed cultural experiences recognizing the vast contributions of the African American, Asian and Latino communities.
Meeting Financial Needs
To address the financial needs of seniors, the Information and Referral program can assist with...

Rent Rebates
PACE (pharmaceutical assistance)
ACCESS
OPT (transportation arrangements)
LIHEAP (energy assistance)
And more!

Additional Resources for Seniors

Understanding the eligibility requirements to apply for Medicaid Long Term Care in Pennsylvania.
Step by step guides for multiple options provided by Medicare, Medicaid, and insurance for people recently unemployed, including critical information like costs, and financial assistance.
Guide to Medicare Eligibility, Coverage and Plans
Medicaid: How To Qualify And Apply For Medicaid
Health Insurance When You’re Unemployed
Homecare.org: An industry-leading research organization dedicated to enhancing the lives of older adults by ensuring that they have access to the tools and resources to remain independent and safe in their own homes. No matter the situation, we are here to offer seniors and their loved ones a helping hand in the journey of aging in place.
Senior Housing Net: Providing comprehensive information for Seniors and their families in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania and across the country, including financial support and care options.
Looking for info on Medical Alert Systems?
Financial Assistance for Seniors Buying Hearing Aids.

jasujazumdinski
Medicare Resources for Immigrant Community Members

Medicare Resources in Other Languages
Can My Immigrant Parents or Immigrant Spouse Get Medicare?
What Are the Medicare Eligibility Requirements for Immigrants?
How Much Does Medicare for Immigrants Cost?
Recursos de Medicare para la población inmigrante

last updated: 04/17/2025
Back to top
Ready
jasujazumdinski