opens in new tab or window
In This Section
City Planning
Mobility and Infrastructure
Permits, Licenses, and Inspections  - Applications & Forms
OneStopPGH
Permits
Licenses    - Business Licenses
Contractor Licenses
Trade Licenses
Bulletins
Community Resources
Code Enforcement
Condemned Buildings
PLI Fees
Building Codes
Appeals
PLI Contacts
Announcements
Registrations
Digital Equity In Pittsburgh
Small Business Resources
Public Works
Zoning
Geographic Information Systems, Mapping & Open Data
Procurement
PGH Lab
Sustainability
Fire Suppression Trade License
A Fire Suppression Trade License is required to install, erect, enlarge, repair, alter, remove, convert, or replace any fire suppression systems within the City of Pittsburgh. Cooking hood work does not require a Fire Suppression Trade License.
Trade licenses are issued for the purposes of verifying an individual's qualifications for performing trade work. Trade licenses are issued to indivuals, not companies. In order to obtain permits, trade license holders must further provide a tax compliance letter from the City Finance Department, a certificate of general liability insurance, and evidence of worker's comp insurance or an affidavit of exemption, as outlined in our Rules and Regulations.
Wondering How Much Your License Costs?
All Department of Permits, Licenses and Inspections fees change annually. Consult the Current Fee Schedule for new applications, renewals, and late fees.
jasujazumdinski
Late Fees
A 60 day grace period begins when your license expires. A late fee will be charged 30 days after your license expires. If your license is not renewed within 60 days of expiration, it is considered lapsed and closed. All contractor and trade licenses expire a year from the date of issuance.
License Requirements
New Licensees:
A copy of proof of passing the certified standardized test.
A resume or documentation establishing a minimum of six (6) years of a combination of experience and education.
Non-Expired Government Issued Photo ID.
Renewal:
Proof of completing eight (8) hours of CEUs within the previous twelve (12) months from the license renewal date.
Non-Expired Government Issued Photo ID.
Resources
Looking for additional info or clarification on your license requirements?
Check out the Rules and Regulations(PDF, 626KB)
What exams will be accepted?
ICC standardized test: PLI will accept any authentic, passed “Fire Suppression Installation Contractor” ICC exam, beginning with the 2015 code year and continuing
NICET standardized tests: PLI will accept any authentic, passed National Institute for Certification in Engineering Technologies (“NICET”) exams including both the Level III Water-based Systems Layout and Special Hazards Systems Layout tests. Both tests must be completed to be considered equivalent to the ICC test defined above
jasujazumdinski
Continuing Education Credits
PLI will accept relevant continuing education credits from accredited institutions as listed by:
The ICC Preferred Provider’s Directory. For a full list of current providers, visit the ICC Preferred Provider website, and click on “Providers Directory.”
The Pennsylvania Department of Labor and Industry's (PA - DLI) UCC continuing education providers.
For Stationary Power Engineers, relevant trainings provided by the International Union of Operating Engineers (“IUOE”) and relevant Occupational Safety and Health Administration (“OSHA”) courses.
Relevant trainings provided by trade-specific union and apprenticeship programs are accepted.
PLI will review requests outside the above categories on a case by case basis
last updated: 04/24/2025
Back to top
Ready
jasujazumdinski