opens in new tab or window
Skip to main content
In This Section

Mayor
City Controller
City Council
Boards, Authorities, Commissions
Legal Services
Jobs
Finance &amp; Budget  - Campaign Finances
Dog Licenses
Fee Schedule
Management &amp; Budget    - About Office of Management and Budget
Budgets and Reports
Procurement
Budget Engagement
Grants Office
Fleet Operations
OMB Contacts
Community Development

New Business Registration
Pilot Home Buying Program
Real Estate
Taxes
Contacts &amp; Information

Community Development
The Community Development Division of the Office of Management and Budget administers and monitors federal grants to the City of Pittsburgh. The programs, the Community Development Block Grant (CDBG), Emergency Solutions Grant (ESG), HOME Investment Partnerships Program (HOME), and Housing Opportunities for Persons with AIDS (HOPWA), are grants from the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD).
HOME, which focuses on encouraging affordable housing, is administered by the Urban Redevelopment Authority. HOPWA, which focuses on providing housing for persons with HIV/AIDS, is administered by the Jewish Healthcare Foundation. These organizations are responsible for reporting to the Community Development Division.
The City of Pittsburgh uses CDBG funds for many different improvement projects, such as repairing roads and demolishing vacant buildings. Nonprofits can also apply to receive funds from CDBG and ESG through the City, which they will use to benefit people with low to moderate incomes, people experiencing homelessness, or neighborhoods in need of economic development. CDBG funds are awarded by the City as Public Service Grants (PSG) and Neighborhood Economic Development Grants (NED).
If you represent an organization interested in receiving funding, please visit the program page for more information.
If you are an individual interested in participating in making decisions about funding priorities or learning more about our current activities, please visit our Public Engagement page.
The Community Development Division does not assist individuals directly. If you are in need of services, please see our Resources for Individuals document(PDF, 139KB).
Sign up for our mailing list!

Community Development Block Grant (CDBG)
Public Service Grant
Neighborhood Economic Development (NED)
Emergency Solutions Grants (ESG) Program
Housing Opportunities for Persons with AIDS (HOPWA)
HOME Investment Partnerships Program
Community Development Documents
Community Development Documents Archives
Public Participation
Grant Opportunities
Resources for Subrecipients
Environmental Review
CDBG Eligible Tracts Map
Back to top
jasujazumdinski