Skip to main content
opens in new tab or window
In This Section

City Planning  - About City Planning
City Planning Meeting Calendar
City Planning Public Notices
Commissions and Boards
Historic Preservation Program
Public Art Program
Neighborhood Planning
Master &amp; Neighborhood Plans    - Sheraden Park Master Plan
South Side Park Master Plan
Ecoinnovation District
Greater Hazelwood Neighborhood Plan
Greater Hill District Master Plan
Homewood Community Plan
Manchester Chateau Neighborhood Plan
The Oakland Plan

City Planning Projects
City Planning Programs
Development Review Process Guides
Mobility and Infrastructure
Permits, Licenses, and Inspections
Digital Equity In Pittsburgh
Small Business Resources
Public Works
Zoning
Geographic Information Systems, Mapping &amp; Open Data
Procurement
PGH Lab
Sustainability

Homewood Community Plan
The Neighborhood
In the early 20th century, changing industry and increasing growth beyond downtown led to the development of the Homewood community. The increased population needed transportation and a system of streetcar lines was constructed to connect the neighborhood to downtown. During the 1950s, Homewood experienced residential growth with displaced residents from the Lower Hill and Homewood to become one of Pittsburgh's largest African-American neighborhoods.
Homewood consists of three neighborhoods – Homewood North, Homewood West, and Homewood South – with a combined population of 6,442, which is 94% African-American, as of the 2010 census. Homewood is predominantly residential with commercial activities concentrated on Frankstown Road and Homewood Avenue corridors. Of the 5,194 parcels that make up Homewood, 49.6% are vacant, according to a 2014 Operation Better Block survey. This plan will aim to provide strategies that will increase housing, development, mobility, and infrastructure in an equitable way.
Homewood has a valuable ecosystem of dedicated community organizations and leaders who have worked to develop plans for parts of the neighborhood. The residents, stakeholders, and institutions of Homewood have worked to rebuild and envision a Homewood of the future. This planning process built off that foundation and establishes a common vision and direction for the Homewood community.
jasujazumdinski
The Vision for the Future of Homewood
Homewood will be an African-American cultural destination where people choose to live, work, worship, and visit. It will be safe, green, healthy, and innovative. It will have quality schools. It will be a place that protects long-term and low-income residents and equips them to be engaged and informed.
Planning Process
Stage 1
Fall 2017
Organize
Prepare for the planning process.
Stage 2
Spring - Summer 2018
Visualize
Identify issues &amp; opportunities, set a vision &amp; goals.
Stage 3
Fall - Winter 2019
Strategize
Develop project &amp; programs.
Stage 4
Winter 2019 -Summer 2020
Formalize
Assemble, review, &amp; adopt the plan.
Stage 5
Next 10 years
Realize
Implement the plan's actions.
Completed Homewood Community Plan(PDF, 53MB)

The Plan
last updated: 04/23/2025
Back to top
Ready
jasujazumdinski