Skip to main content
opens in new tab or window
In This Section

City Planning
Mobility and Infrastructure
Permits, Licenses, and Inspections
Digital Equity In Pittsburgh
Small Business Resources
Public Works
Zoning
Geographic Information Systems, Mapping &amp; Open Data  - Geographic Information System (GIS) &amp; Mapping    - Explore PGH GIS/Mapping Hub
Interactive Apps, Maps &amp; Dashboards

PGH Open Data
Related Links &amp; Resources
Procurement
PGH Lab
Sustainability

Interactive Apps, Maps &amp; Dashboards
The GIS Team of the Department of Innovation &amp; Performance created mapping tools to better serve the residents of Pittsburgh.
Be advised that our interactive map URLs have all been upgraded to a new server and have changed. Please update your bookmarks accordingly. Thank you.
DISCLAIMER(show below)
While the data has been tested for accuracy and are properly functioning, The City of Pittsburgh disclaims any responsibility for the accuracy or correctness of the data.
The foregoing warranty is exclusive and in lieu of all other warranties or merchantability, fitness for particular purpose and/or any other type whether expressed or implied. In no event shall The City of Pittsburgh become liable to users of these data, or any other party, for any loss or damages, consequential or otherwise, including but not limited to time, money, or goodwill, arising from the use, operation or modification of the data. In using these data, users further agree to indemnify, defend, and hold harmless The City of Pittsburgh for any and all liability of any nature arising out of or resulting from the lack of accuracy or correctness of the data, or the use of the data.

Please acknowledge The City of Pittsburgh as a source when this data is used in the preparation of reports, papers, publications, maps, and other products.
To ensure that appropriate documentation and data limitations are provided, these databases should not be redistributed to any other parties.

Do you have questions about our maps? Please contact gis@pittsburghpa.gov.
jasujazumdinski
PGH Administrative, Community &amp; Demography

Community Profile
General Pittsburgh Map
Pittsburgh City Council Districts
Pittsburgh Demographics
Pittsburgh Index Map
Pittsburgh Public School Board Districts
Wards &amp; Voting Districts

PGH Art &amp; History

City of Pittsburgh Art Locations
City of Pittsburgh Public Art Podcasts
Historic Designations and Districts
PGH Historic Maps Viewer
Pittsburgh Historic Maps
Download Historic Maps
1984 Lot &amp; Block Maps - Scale 200
1984 Topography Maps - Scale 200
Related Links &amp; Resources
Pitt University Digital Historic Maps

PGH Permits, Planning &amp; Zoning

OneStopPGH Insights
Community Development Block Grant Eligible Areas
Outdoor Dining Permits
Pittsburgh Neighborhoods
Pittsburgh Zoning
Residential Permit Parking
Who is My Neighborhood Planner?
Who’s My RCO

PGH Infrastructure &amp; Transportation

5 Years Paving History
City Bridges
City Steps
Department of Mobility &amp; Infrastructure 2025 Q1 Projects
Parking Meters
Pittsburgh Bicycle Facilities
Street Ownership
Street Obstructions Map (Beta)
Traffic Calming Requests

Public Safety, Addressing &amp; New Street Naming

Address Request &amp; New Street Name Request
Public Safety Zones

PGH Housing &amp; Real Estate

Pittsburgh Neighborhood Renter Housing Burden Map
Vacant, Condemned, Delinquent parcels

PGH Health &amp; Safety

Crash Data Dashboard
PGHOpioids
Pittsburgh High Injury Network (HIN)

PGH Environment

PGH Environmental Map
PGH Parks
PGH Stormwater Map
Pittsburgh Trails Map

last updated: 10/07/2025
Back to top
Ready
jasujazumdinski