Skip to main content
opens in new tab or window
In This Section

City Planning
Mobility and Infrastructure
Permits, Licenses, and Inspections  - Applications &amp; Forms
OneStopPGH
Permits    - About PLI
Residential Permits
Commercial Permits
Permit Process
Work Not Requiring a Permit

Licenses
Bulletins
Community Resources
Code Enforcement
Condemned Buildings
PLI Fees
Building Codes
Appeals
PLI Contacts
Announcements
Registrations
Digital Equity In Pittsburgh
Small Business Resources
Public Works
Zoning
Geographic Information Systems, Mapping &amp; Open Data
Procurement
PGH Lab
Sustainability

Occupancy Only Permit
The Commercial Building Permit is now part of the Building and Development Application!
A residential occupancy-only permit is required for the following work on a residential building or structure (single-family or two-family dwelling):

To certify a new use and/or occupancy for an existing building or structure.
Approve temporary use and/or occupancy of an existing building or structure.

Please see Permit Home for the definition of residential structures and work types. Please see Work Not Requiring A Permit for work that can be performed without a PLI permit. Please visit our Contacts page for the Construction Inspector's contact information.
Permanent Use Work Scopes
Permanent use work scopes are applicable to uses with a duration that exceeds 180 days. The applicant shall identify one of the following work scopes:

New Use: proposed change in the use and/or occupancy of a house. Includes buildings and/or tenant spaces without a valid certificate of occupancy.
Modify Existing CO - Change of Lessee: proposed modification to an existing certificate of occupancy to change the lessee. The applicant shall provide a copy of the referenced certificate of occupancy and describe the intended use of the building and/or tenant space.
Modify Existing CO - Correction: proposed modification to an existing certificate of occupancy to correct inaccurate and/or incorrect information. The applicant shall provide a copy of the referenced certificate of occupancy and describe the intended use of the building and/or tenant space.

jasujazumdinski
Temporary Use Work Scopes
Temporary Use work scopes are applicable to uses with a duration that is 180 days or less. The applicant shall identify one of the following work scopes:

Partial/Phased Occupancy: proposed occupancy of a house prior to completion of construction.

Permit Process
The permit process consists of the following steps:

Application Submission
Application Review
Permit Issuance
Permit Inspections
Permit Completion

Please see Other Agency Coordination for processes related to other agencies that may relate to your permit scope. For residential occupancy permits:

A Zoning Development Review application (ZDR) is required for:
All permanent use work scopes.
Development of a property in a regulated floodplain requires a PLI Floodplain permit.

last updated: 07/30/2025
Back to top
Ready
jasujazumdinski