opens in new tab or window
jasujazumdinski
Neighborhoods
Our district includes a diverse mix of neighborhoods across the Northside, as well as parts of Downtown and the Strip District. From historic communities like Allegheny West and Deutschtown to vibrant business corridors and growing residential areas, District 1 reflects the energy and resilience that define our city.
Allegheny Center(show below)
Located in the center of the former Allegheny City, Allegheny Center is a neighborhood of multiple uses. The area includes several residential complexes, high-rises, and office buildings. The 1960’s brought redevelopment that dramatically changed the neighborhood. The Allegheny Market House (a prominent landmark of the former Allegheny City’s downtown) and other buildings in the area were leveled to make way for Allegheny Center Mall. Traffic was rerouted around the neighborhood, eliminating the Ohio and Federal Street intersection, and separating Allegheny Center from the surrounding area.
Allegheny City Central(show below)
Also known as Central North Side, this diverse and unique neighborhood has a host of attractions and amenities. Mixed in with the beautiful historic homes, you will find attractions like the Mattress Factory art museum, City of Asylum, the Allegheny YMCA, and the new North Side Carnegie Library branch. The Federal St./North corridor is buzzing with new activity and exciting developments, including the redevelopment of the historic Garden Theatre Block which offers even more potential for this up and coming community.
Allegheny West(show below)
Referred to by locals as ‘Pittsburgh’s smallest neighborhood’, Allegheny West sits just north of Heinz Field and the Community College of Allegheny County, and on the western edge of the historic Allegheny Commons Park. The neighborhood features many historic Victorian style row homes, which are showcased in the neighborhood’s annual Christmas House Tour. Allegheny West is also home to a bustling business district along Western Avenue, where you’ll find North Side favorites like the Modern Café, the Allegheny Sandwich Shop, and Nicky’s Thai Kitchen. This quaint community is truly a gem of the North Side.
Brighton Heights(show below)
Brighton Heights is a located in Pittsburgh’s Upper North Side on the edge of the city limits, overlooking the Ohio River to the west. Brighton Heights has two business districts. One is on Brighton Road, centered at the intersection of Termon Avenue, while the other is on California Avenue centered near the intersection of Orchlee St. The large maple trees lining many of the residential streets, nicely complement the stonework and brickwork of the homes and churches throughout the neighborhood. The stately architecture and beautiful stained glass of many of the buildings in Brighton Heights make it a popular stop for Pittsburgh’s annual neighborhood house tours. The community in Brighton Heights is stable like its solid buildings, with many lifelong residents who know each other well.
Downtown Pittsburgh(show below)
Downtown Pittsburgh, often referred to as the Golden Triangle, is the city's central business district, uniquely situated at the confluence of the Allegheny, Monongahela, and Ohio Rivers. This area is home to a wealth of historic, cultural, and entertainment sites, including the Cultural District and numerous theaters and galleries. Downtown has experienced a residential resurgence, with historic buildings being transformed into modern living spaces, contributing to a growing population and vibrant community.
East Allegheny(show below)
The neighborhood is also known as Deutschtown because of the many German immigrants who settled there--this also refers to the name of its national historic district. The historic district is centered on East Ohio Street, and is also the neighborhood’s business district. Despite its historic nature, the neighborhood saw significant demolition from the construction of I-279 and I-579, the highway and bridge that bisect the neighborhood. The neighborhood is still home to many long-standing businesses and fine brick row houses. The neighborhood is very walk-able, and has easy access to a wealth of recreational and cultural activities.
Fineview(show below)
Fineview is a small neighborhood community mostly defined by its topography, it has a fine view. The topography allows for one of the best views of the city from a recently renovated overlook. The hilly landscape separates the community from its surrounding neighbors, yet it is still accessible. The area is largely residential and although it is not yet deemed a registered historic district, it has many charming older houses that have recently seen some new investment--several new homes have recently been constructed as well.
Northview Heights(show below)
Northview Heights was annexed by Pittsburgh in 1931. In 1962, the Housing Authority of Pittsburgh opened a 999 unit housing complex that is a combination of high-rise and row homes. The complex, due to the neighborhood's topography and its design is somewhat secluded.
Observatory Hill(show below)
Observatory Hill, also known as Perry North, is located atop Pittsburgh’s Upper North Side. In addition to scenic hilltop views of the city, Observatory Hill is also home to many restored and renovated mansions, which are part of the annual Observatory Hill House Tour. The name Observatory Hill is taken from the beautiful Allegheny Observatory located atop a hill in Riverview Park. This is a hilly neighborhood and many streets are on steep hillsides that do not allow for through traffic. Observatory Hill is an ethnically and economically diverse neighborhood where new residents who are attracted by the area's quality of life will have neighbors whose families have lived in the neighborhood for generations.
Spring Garden(show below)
Spring Garden is a valley community, centered upon Spring Garden Avenue. During the period of its initial growth in the mid-1800s, Spring Garden was primarily industrial in nature. It was a center of meat packing, tanning, and soap production businesses. The largely German and Austrian workforce of these industries sought to live close to their places of work, and the demand was quickly met by early housing developers of the area. Today, Spring Garden retains much of its original industrial feel while also remaining a cohesive community of many long-time and cultural residents.
Spring Hill-City View(show below)
Known today for its panoramic views of the city, Spring Hill-City View was originally named for the natural springs that ran through the area. Many Germans immigrated there from 1850 to 1920, giving the neighborhood a Bavarian atmosphere. Local street names include Rhine, Woessner, Haslage, Zoller and Goehring. Less than ten minutes from Downtown and bordering directly on Interstate 279, Spring Hill is a neighborhood that enjoys both lush greenery and quick access to city and suburban amenities.
Strip District(show below)
The Strip District is a dynamic neighborhood that seamlessly blends Pittsburgh's industrial heritage with a vibrant marketplace atmosphere. Once home to mills and factories, the area has transformed into a bustling hub for food enthusiasts, offering an array of grocers, produce stands, and iconic eateries. Beyond its culinary delights, the Strip District is known for its diverse range of vendors offering apparel, accessories, and merchandise for local sports teams, making it a popular destination for shoppers seeking unique finds and Pittsburgh pride. The neighborhood's unique combination of historic charm and modern development has earned it recognition as one of Pennsylvania's "Great Neighborhoods."
Summer Hill(show below)
Summer Hill was annexed into the City of Pittsburgh in 1907 and is the northernmost neighborhood in the City of Pittsburgh. Summer Hill has a distinctly suburban feel, and is composed mostly of medium to large size lots with affordable housing in a forested setting. It enjoys easy access to Downtown, the Parkway North, McKnight Road, and North Hills shopping areas.
Troy Hill & Washington's Landing(show below)
Overlooking Downtown and the Allegheny River, Troy Hill is a hilltop neighborhood that also includes the Route 28 corridor as well as the development of Washington’s Landing (Herr’s Island). Lowrie Street is the main street through the neighborhood. The 31st Street Bridge extends over Herr’s Island and the Allegheny River to the Strip District on the opposite shore. The Troy Hill Citizens Council is active in preserving the neighborhood’s character through numerous charitable events and beautification efforts. Though it has diversified greatly over the years, the feel of this neighborhood is still defined by the strong sense of community developed by the largely German immigrants who came here in the middle of the 19th Century.
Back to top
Ready
jasujazumdinski