Skip to main content
opens in new tab or window
In This Section

City Planning
Mobility and Infrastructure
Permits, Licenses, and Inspections  - Applications &amp; Forms
OneStopPGH
Permits
Licenses    - Business Licenses
Contractor Licenses
Trade Licenses

Bulletins
Community Resources
Code Enforcement
Condemned Buildings
PLI Fees
Building Codes
Appeals
PLI Contacts
Announcements
Registrations
Digital Equity In Pittsburgh
Small Business Resources
Public Works
Zoning
Geographic Information Systems, Mapping &amp; Open Data
Procurement
PGH Lab
Sustainability

Stationary Vendor License
Currently accepting applications for Vending Site Nomination! Please see "How to Nominate a New Vending Site" below for instructions!
The City of Pittsburgh requires a Stationary Vendor License to sell food or goods at fixed locations or designated sports/entertainment facilities. For a complete list of definitions and requirements, please see Chapter 719: Vendors and Peddlers of the City code and the PLI Licensing Rules and Regulations(PDF, 626KB).

Exemptions
No vending or occupancy permit is required to sell food or goods when vending units are located in the Strip District neighborhood. Vendors that fall under this exception must seek written permission from the building or property owner. Inspections are completed to insure the vendor is properly disposing of waste in minimum 30 gallon combined capacity trash containers (not in City trash cans) when applicable, not producing loud noises, capable of movement at all times, and meeting all other requirements of the License.
jasujazumdinski
Current List of Approved Vacant Vendor Sites
For a list of current of Current approved vacant vendor sites, please create a OneStopPGH account and begin the application process, or email pliapptech@pittsburghpa.gov.
Application Process

Prepare Required Documents
Check below for a list of license requirements
For more detailed info, check out the Rules and Regulations(PDF, 626KB)
Complete Application
Fill out an application online!
Submit Documents and Payment
Check the cost of your license application fee here: Current Fee Schedule
Inspections
New licenses will require an inspection before the license can be issued.
Renewed licenses are subject to periodic maintenance inspections.

Main License Requirements

City of Pittsburgh tax compliance letter from the City Finance department.
General Liability insurance certificate with the City of Pittsburgh listed as certificate holder.
Valid vehicle registration for vending unit (if the unit is towed and has a license plate)
Valid government-issued photo ID of the applicant.
Workers compensation certificate or affidavit of exemption.
Photos of front and side of vehicle or vending unit.

Additional License Requirements

If the business serves food or drink, including prepackaged items, a valid Allegheny County Health Department Certificate for the unit will be required.
If the business buys or sells precious metals, an Allegheny County Precious Metals license must be provided. This is issued by the Allegheny County Sheriff's Office.

jasujazumdinski
Late Fees
A late fee will be charged the day after your license expires. If your license is not renewed within 30 days of expiration, it is considered lapsed and closed. All business licenses expire a year from the date of issuance.
Resources
Looking for additional info or clarification on your license requirements?
Check out the Rules and Regulations(PDF, 626KB)
How do I get a tax certification letter?
Call or email the Department of Finance
Insurance Info
A non-expired Certificate of Insurance showing general liability coverage for the applicant at the location where licensed activity will take place, and listing the City of Pittsburgh as the certificate holder and additionally insured. General liability insurance minimums as follows: $1,000,000 each occurrence, $2,000,000 general aggregate.
Worker’s Compensation Insurance: A Certificate of Insurance showing Worker's Compensation coverage for the applicant business and listing the City of Pittsburgh as the certificate holder. If the business does not have any employees, then upload a notarized statement attesting that there are no employees.
Department of Permits, Licenses and Inspections Workers' Compensation Exemption Affidavit(PDF, 72KB).
How to Nominate a New Vending Site

Applicant submits a vending nomination form(PDF, 113KB) to the Department of Permits, Licenses and Inspections (PLI).
The nominated site will be reviewed by the vending site committee which meets twice per year.
If approved, the application will be forwarded to City Council for approval. The Council approval process takes approximately four weeks.
If City Council approves, the site will be immediately advertised in a public publication, such as a newspaper.
Applicants will be taken from any qualified individual wishing to vend at the site after it has been publicly advertised.
If more than one qualified application for a site is received, a lottery will be conducted and a list will be created.
Position #1 on the lottery list gets first right of refusal.
If #1 decides they no longer want to vend at the site, then Position #2 gets the next right of refusal and so on until the list has been exhausted.
If there are no applications during the time set forth, the sites will be added to the vacant vending sites list. The sites will then be subject to the standard application process and awarded on a first come first served basis.

last updated: 04/24/2025
Back to top
Ready
jasujazumdinski