Skip to main content
opens in new tab or window
CitiParks Annual Track and Treat Event

Pittsburgh, PA – CitiParks will host their annual TRACK &amp; TREAT Event at the Bud Harris Cycling Track (1401 Washington Blvd.) in Highland Park on Saturday, October 19, 2024 from Noon to 4 p.m.
“One of our favorite family days at CitiParks, Track &amp; Treat is cycling fun for the whole family,” noted Director Kathryn Vargas.  “It is also a great opportunity to visit Bud Harris Cycling Track—a unique venue where kids can pedal their hearts out with lots of fun along the way!”
Join CitiParks for this FREE healthy lifestyle event that’s fun for the entire family with a Halloween theme!  Children and families are welcome to wear their Halloween costumes; bring their own bikes or borrow one of ours!  Cycle around the Bud Harris Cycling Track; stopping along the way to learn bike etiquette &amp; safety and have fun decorating their bikes.  Children can enjoy Halloween and seasonal games, crafts, balloons, face painting and more along the Track with music, refreshments and life-sized, hand-painted seasonal decor!
Come ready for some SPOOK-tacular fun and be sure to dress for the costume contest that begins at 2 p.m.
This event is coordinated by CitiParks Community Enrichment Team &amp; Recreation Center Staff!
The Bud Harris Cycling Track is a half-mile oval loop along Washington Boulevard.  It is a one-of-a-kind attraction, drawing elite cyclists and beginners to its banked corners and slight hill.  Formerly a drivers’ training course, the facility accommodates track and criterium racing and time trials, as well as this annual CitiParks Halloween Event.
jasujazumdinski
When
Past event dates

Saturday, October 19, 2024 \| 12:00 PM
- 04:00 PM

Location
Highland Park
Bud Harris Cycling Track, 1401 Washington Blvd, 15206, View Map
Skip to below map
40.4760546,-79.9090453
1401 Washington Blvd ,
15206
Bud Harris Cycling Track
1401 Washington Blvd ,
15206
CitiParks Annual Track and Treat Event
Skip to above map
Event Snapshot
Cost
Free
Contact
CitiParks Community Enrichment Team &amp; Recreation Center Staff
Tagged as:

Kids &amp; family

Back to top
Ready
jasujazumdinski