opens in new tab or window
City Planning
About City Planning
Learn how we partner with communities to implement impactful policies, promote vibrant neighborhoods, and ensure a resilient, equitable future for all. Join us in shaping the city's future!
City Planning Meeting Calendar
Calendar showing public notices, meeting dates, and agendas for City Planning Boards, Commissions, and DAMs
City Planning Public Notices
Public notices as required by City of Pittsburgh Code of Ordinances
Commissions and Boards
City Planning hosts various commissions, boards, and panels for reviewing development, design, public art, historic review, and zoning.
Historic Preservation Program
Pittsburgh's cultural heritage is the City's legacy, formed by its people, place, neighborhoods, buildings, landscapes, objects, and stories.
Public Art Program
Our Public Art Program ensures that art and culture have a place in public spaces and that the design of public spaces and civic structures has a positive impact on the City's public realm.
Neighborhood Planning
Neighborhood planners act as liaisons between City government and the community for most planning processes. Neighborhood planners participate in, and often coordinate, community plans. This group of planners acts as go-to people for explanations of zoning, development, transportation and other planning-related matters.
Master & Neighborhood Plans
City Planning Projects
Learn more about Pittsburgh’s exciting urban projects and planning initiatives! Our Projects page offers insights into various studies and developments, including riverbank assessments, public realm improvements, street design, and more. Explore resources, timelines, and how you can get involved!
City Planning Programs
Adopt-A-Lot
Greenways
Building Benchmarking
Registered Community Organizations
Development Review Process Guides
If you are planning on building something in the City of Pittsburgh, you may need to work with the Department of City Planning Zoning & Development Review Division. To make the process easier, we have put together several easy to use guides that can help to get your project moving.
Back to top
Ready
jasujazumdinski