Skip to main content
opens in new tab or window
In This Section

Mayor
City Controller
City Council
Boards, Authorities, Commissions
Legal Services  - Department of Law
Office of Equal Protection
Commission on Human Relations
Ethics Hearing Board
Office of Municipal Investigations    - About OMI
Employee Rights
Function, Services &amp; Goals
Filing a Complaint
OMI Annual Reports
Contact OMI

City Ordinances
File a Claim with Law
Right to Know
Jobs
Finance &amp; Budget
Contacts &amp; Information

Employee Rights
Check your specific collective bargaining agreement, department procedural orders and civil service regulations.
The following are some general employee rights:

Accused employees may review the complaint and are entitled to a copy of their own statement, upon request, but only after the investigation is complete.
Accused employees are not necessarily entitled to a copy of the intake statement, unless they were subject to discipline in relation to the complaint.
Employees will be given information on the nature of the complaint prior to the interview.
Employees will be given the opportunity to gather any supporting documentation or evidence they deem relevant upon giving their statement to OMI.

Accused employees will be notified of the findings of the investigation as it relates to the allegations against them.  Witness employees will not be notified of the findings.
Possible closing categories are:

Unfounded – the allegations were found not to have occurred as alleged;
Exonerated – the allegations occurred, but the action (or inaction) did not violate policy;
Not Resolved – whether or not the allegation occurred could not be determined based upon the facts gathered during the course of the investigation;
Sustained – the employee was found to have violated policy.

If any employee wishes to check their OMI history, they may request a copy, in writing, through the OMI Manager.  The OMI history is a brief summary of the complaint, the alleged violations and the disposition.  The OMI history does not include full investigative files.
last updated: 08/11/2025
Back to top
Ready
jasujazumdinski