opens in new tab or window
In This Section
Mayor
City Controller
City Council
Boards, Authorities, Commissions  - Member Rosters
Agendas & Minutes
List of Boards, Authorities, Commissions    - Allegheny County Sanitary Authority (ALCOSAN)
Allegheny Regional Asset District (ARAD)
Board of Appeals
Bridge Asset Management Program
City-County Task Force on Disabilities
Civil Service Commission
Clean Pittsburgh Commission
Commission on Human Relations
Comprehensive Municipal Pension Trust Fund
Ethics Hearing Board
Equipment Leasing Authority
Equal Opportunity Review Commission (EORC)
Gender Equity Commission
HIV Commission
Housing Authority, City of Pittsburgh
Independent Citizen Police Review Board
Infrastructure Asset Reporting and Investment
LGBTQIA+ Commission
Municipal Pension Fund
Other Post Employment Benefits (OPEB) Trust Fund
Pittsburgh Land Bank
Records Management Advisory Commission
Shade Tree Commission
Southwestern Pennsylvania Commission
Sports and Exhibition Authority
Stadium Authority
Urban Redevelopment Authority
Legal Services
Jobs
Finance & Budget
Contacts & Information
Retirement Benefits
Are my pension benefits taxable?
For federal tax purposes, there are different rules that apply to the taxability of pensions based upon employee and employer contributions. Neither the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, nor the County of Allegheny, nor the City of Pittsburgh tax your monthly pension benefit. Due to the complexities of the tax laws, retirees should consult a tax professional.
jasujazumdinski
How long will I receive a pension?
Your monthly pension benefits will be paid to you as long as you live.
What is the Social Security Reduction at age 65?
The Social Security Reduction at age 65 is applicable to all members hired after December 31, 1974. At age 65, the original pension amount is reduced by 50% of a Social Security benefit calculated using only wages earned during employment with the City. This reduction cannot exceed one half of the original pension amount.
Can I expect an increase to my pension benefits after I retire?
From time to time, retirees may receive increases from a Pension Trust Fund and other sources. Since 1987, retirees have received a total of $45.26 additional monthly pension benefits.
How solvent is the Pension Fund? Could I one day lose my benefit?
Because the pension benefit is a municipal/governmental pension, the possibility of losing the benefit is remote. The reason for this is that pursuant to law, the pensioner has first claim on tax dollars to satisfy pension benefits.
last updated: 04/22/2025
Back to top
Ready
jasujazumdinski