Skip to main content
opens in new tab or window
In This Section

Trash &amp; Recycling
311
A - Z: Frequently Visited
ADA &amp; Disability Rights
Snow Removal
Road Maintenance
Food Programs
Pets &amp; Animals
Community Programming  - Love Your Block    - Guidelines
Apply

City Cuts
Snow Angels
Black Pittsburgh Matters
Pittsburgh's Women's Suffrage Centennial
Immigrant and Refugee Affairs
Tree Resources

Guidelines

Please keep these basic requirements in mind before applying:

Love Your Block is a City of Pittsburgh program with a maximum award of $2,500.
Funding is provided through reimbursement after project implementation.
Funding must be awarded through a nonprofit. If your organization is not a nonprofit, you can ask one to be your sponsor. Nonprofits are welcome to sponsor multiple projects.
Projects must benefit the public.
Projects on private property must have the written permission of the owner.
All projects are subject to City of Pittsburgh Zoning and Permit guidelines.
Project-related events must follow COVID-19 guidelines that are in place at the time of the events.

In planning for strong and successful projects, consider the following priorities:

Build strong partnerships
Partnering with other organizations, nonprofits, or groups to complete this project.
Recruit volunteers from neighborhood groups or organizations.
Ask local businesses to lend a hand or donate food or materials.
Leverage donations
Ask residents or local businesses to donate plants, compost material, or food for your volunteer event day.
Make sure it’s feasible
We love creative ideas, but don’t bite off more than you can chew! If you have a huge idea, make Love Your Block a first step in the right direction and secure some other partners that can assist with your plans.
Engage neighbors
While your volunteers can come from anywhere, we’ve found that the most impactful projects utilize volunteers within proximity to the project. People like to be a part of what’s happening next door and are more likely to maintain and sustain the project afterward if they helped plan and implement it.

last updated: 04/04/2025
Back to top
Ready
jasujazumdinski