opens in new tab or window
In This Section
City Planning  - About City Planning
City Planning Meeting Calendar
City Planning Public Notices
Commissions and Boards
Historic Preservation Program
Public Art Program
Neighborhood Planning
Master & Neighborhood Plans    - Sheraden Park Master Plan
South Side Park Master Plan
Ecoinnovation District
Greater Hazelwood Neighborhood Plan
Greater Hill District Master Plan
Homewood Community Plan
Manchester Chateau Neighborhood Plan
The Oakland Plan
City Planning Projects
City Planning Programs
Development Review Process Guides
Mobility and Infrastructure
Permits, Licenses, and Inspections
Digital Equity In Pittsburgh
Small Business Resources
Public Works
Zoning
Geographic Information Systems, Mapping & Open Data
Procurement
PGH Lab
Sustainability
South Side Park Master Plan
Read the South Side Park Master Plan Final Report(PDF, 182MB).
Also, view drafted perspectives of the park(PDF, 17MB) and provide feedback.
The South Side Park Master Plan is an outcome of the City’s comprehensive Open Space Plan (2013) which identified South Side Park as a potential Signature Community Park in need of a master plan that includes neighboring Arlington Park and harnesses the City’s energy for creating an inclusive space that offers recreation, programming, connectivity and ecologic systems within its urban context. The site is inherently dramatic, providing both opportunities and challenges for public space-making. Design decisions will take cues from the unique culture and spaces within South Side Park’s energetic community and rich landscape, which engages the site’s natural systems while also providing a strategic plan for providing phased community resources. The outcome to generate a master plan that presents a strategy for implementation and suggested phasing for individual projects that may be easily adopted into future city budgets and by various other funding sources. Projects will be achievable and representative pieces of the larger vision of a unified framework that both builds community pride and helps to guide future capital investments.
jasujazumdinski
Project Team
The City of Pittsburgh + Advisory Committee
Studio Bryan Hanes — Prime Consultant (landscape architecture/planning)
Brean Associates — Sub-consultant (community outreach)
Sci-Tek Consultants, Inc. — Sub-consultant (stormwater/civil engineering)
Advisory Committee
The Advisory Committee is a group of stakeholders whose role is to advise the Project Manager and consultants throughout the master plan’s development. The members were selected based on their connection/role in South Side Park. City of Pittsburgh and Pittsburgh Water and Sewer Authority representatives represent the various departments and authorities that currently or in the future will work in the park. Community representatives were selected based on their proximity to the park (Arlington, South Side Flats, and South Side Slopes neighborhoods) as well as their roles in the Friends of South Side Park group or other community groups who serve the area of the park.
City Planning
Public Works
CitiParks
Office of Management and Budget
Pittsburgh Water and Sewer Authority
Arlington Resident
South Side Flats Resident
South Side Slopes Resident
Hilltop Alliance
Background
Schedule
Get Involved
last updated: 04/23/2025
Back to top
Ready
jasujazumdinski