Skip to main content
opens in new tab or window
In This Section

City Planning
Mobility and Infrastructure
Permits, Licenses, and Inspections  - Applications &amp; Forms
OneStopPGH
Permits
Licenses
Bulletins
Community Resources
Code Enforcement    - Clean and Lien
Top 10 Code Violations
Facade Inspections
Fire Prevention

Condemned Buildings
PLI Fees
Building Codes
Appeals
PLI Contacts
Announcements
Registrations
Digital Equity In Pittsburgh
Small Business Resources
Public Works
Zoning
Geographic Information Systems, Mapping &amp; Open Data
Procurement
PGH Lab
Sustainability

jasujazumdinski
Top 10 Code Violations
The following codes are our most common violations. The first 7 are from the International Property Maintenance Code as adopted by the City of Pittsburgh and amended in the Code of Ordinance Chapter 1004.
Vacant Structures and land – 301.3
“All vacant structures and premises thereof or vacant land shall be maintained in a clean, safe, secure and sanitary condition as provided herein so as not to cause a blighting problem or adversely affect the public health or safety.”
Sidewalks and Driveways – 302.3
“All sidewalks, walkways, stairs, driveways, parking spaces and similar areas shall be kept in a proper state of repair, and maintained free from hazardous conditions.”
Weeds – 302.4
“All premises and exterior property shall be maintained free from weeds or plant growth I excess of 10 inches. All noxious weeds shall be prohibited. Weeds shall be defined as grasses, annual plants and vegetation, other than trees and shrubs provided; however, this term shall not include cultivated flowers and gardens.”
Deteriorated Fences/Retaining Walls – 302.7
“All accessory structures, including detached garages, fences and walls, shall be maintained structurally sound and in good repair.”
Junk Vehicles – 302.8
“Except as provided for in other regulations, no inoperative or unlicensed motor vehicle shall be parked, kept or stored on any premises, and no vehicle shall at any time be in a state of major disassembly, disrepair, or in the process of being stripped or dismantled. Painting of vehicles if prohibited unless conducted inside an approved spray booth.”
Roofs and Drainage – 304.7
“The roof and flashing shall be sound, tight and not have defects that admit rain. Roof drainage shall be adequate to prevent dampness or deterioration in the walls or interior portion of the structure. Roof drains, gutters and downspouts shall be maintained in good repair and free from obstructions. Roof water shall not be discharged in a manner that creates a public nuisance.”
Debris – 307.1
All exterior property and premises, and the interior of every structure, shall be free from any accumulation of rubbish or garbage.
The following two violations are part of the City of Pittsburgh Zoning Code Title 9
Hedges – 925.06A

Open ornamental fences, hedges, landscape architectural features or guard railings around depressed ramps, in any required yard or court, if, except when in a closed court, maintained at a height of not more than four (4) feet above the ground level adjacent thereto;
Fences or lattice-work screens or walls not more than six and one-half (6½) feet in height, or hedges or thick growth of shrubs, maintained so as not to exceed such height, in any required side or rear yard or court, provided they do not extend closer to a street than the buildable area of the lot. Barbed wire and razor edge are not permitted.”

Parking Pads – 922.02
“A Certificate of Occupancy shall be required for the lawful use or occupancy of all land, structures or premises, or parts thereof, in all of the following circumstances:

Major Excavation/Grading/Fill as defined in Chapter 911.02 (Use Table);
A new or changed use of land or new or changed use of structure except for the noncommercial cultivation of plants and plantings;

A structure hereafter erected, altered or enlarged except for the following:

Interior renovation not undertaken for a change of use, including but not limited to painting, blown-in insulation, waterproofing, replacing kitchen or bathroom cabinets, and floor coverings such as carpet, vinyl and tile;

Exterior renovation that does not alter the footprint or exterior dimensions of an existing structure, including but not limited to painting, the application of sheathing such as shingles and siding, and hanging gutters and downspouts;
Concrete on grade, including but not limited to patios, steps and driveways, but not including vehicle parking areas;
Steam cleaning or pointing bricks;
The erection, enlargement or reconstruction of a sign or sign structure, except signs that do not exceed four (4) square feet in area;
Continuation of a nonconforming use and/or nonconforming structure.”

Upholstered furniture prohibited outdoors – This violation is in Title 6 - Conduct
614.02/614.03 “The use, keeping or storage of any upholstered furniture manufactured primarily for indoor use, including but not limited to mattresses and box springs, sofas and chairs, shall be prohibited on any front, back or side yard or patio visible from any public or private place, sidewalk or highway./The use, keeping or storage of any upholstered furniture manufactured primarily for indoor use, including but not limited to mattresses and box springs, sofas and chairs, shall be prohibited on any front, back or side unenclosed porch, deck or balcony visible from any public or private place, sidewalk or highway.”
last updated: 04/24/2025
Back to top
Ready
jasujazumdinski