opens in new tab or window
In This Section
City Planning
Mobility and Infrastructure
Permits, Licenses, and Inspections  - Applications & Forms
OneStopPGH
Permits    - About PLI
Residential Permits
Commercial Permits
Permit Process
Work Not Requiring a Permit
Licenses
Bulletins
Community Resources
Code Enforcement
Condemned Buildings
PLI Fees
Building Codes
Appeals
PLI Contacts
Announcements
Registrations
Digital Equity In Pittsburgh
Small Business Resources
Public Works
Zoning
Geographic Information Systems, Mapping & Open Data
Procurement
PGH Lab
Sustainability
Sign Permit
A commercial sign permit is required for the following work on a commercial building or structure.
Renovate and repair an existing commercial sign.
Modify an existing commercial sign.
Installation of a new commercial sign.
Please see Permit Home for the definition of commercial structures and work types. Please see Work Not Requiring A Permit for work that can be performed without a PLI permit. Please visit our Contacts page for the Construction Inspector's contact information.
New Construction Work Type
New construction work type sign permits are required for new signs as identified below. Please also see the minor alteration work type which applies to the installation of some new signs.
Pole Sign: applies to signs supported by one or more poles that are over 6 feet tall measured from grade at the base of the sign to the top of the sign.
Ground Sign: applies to signs supported by the ground that are over 6 feet tall measured from grade at the base of the sign to the top of the sign.
Wall Sign - 8 feet: applies to signs supported by the wall of a building installed 8 feet or higher above adjacent grade measured from the base of the wall to the top of the sign.
Wall Sign - 16 feet: applies to signs supported by the wall of a building installed 16 feet or higher above adjacent grade measured from the base of the wall to the top of the sign.
Projecting Sign: applies to signs supported by the wall of a building that projects from the face of the wall.
Roof Sign: applies to signs supported by the roof of a building.
jasujazumdinski
Addition / Alteration Work Types
The addition/alteration work type applies to the modifications to existing signs that are not minor alterations.
Pole Sign: applies to signs supported by one or more poles that are over 6 feet tall measured from grade at the base of the sign to the top of the sign
Ground Sign: applies to signs supported by the ground that are over 6 feet tall measured from grade at the base of the sign to the top of the sign.
Wall Sign - 8 feet: applies to signs supported by the wall of a building installed 8 feet or higher above adjacent grade measured from the base of the wall to the top of the sign.
Wall Sign - 16 feet: applies to signs supported by the wall of a building installed 16 feet or higher above adjacent grade measured from the base of the wall to the top of the sign.
Projecting Sign: applies to signs supported by the wall of a building that projects from the face of the wall.
Roof Sign: applies to signs supported by the roof of a building.
Minor Alteration Work Types
Any applications that are not limited to the items listed below shall require an addition/alteration work type permit.
Pole Sign: applies to signs supported by one or more poles that are a maximum of 6 feet tall measured from grade at the base of the sign to the top of the sign.
Ground Sign: applies to signs supported by the ground that are a maximum of 6 feet tall measured from grade at the base of the sign to the top of the sign.
Wall Sign: applies to signs supported by the wall of a building installed less than 8 feet above adjacent grade measured from the base of the wall to the top of the sign.
Non-Structural Alteration: applies to existing signs with a valid certificate of occupancy where the modifications do not impact the attachment and/or support of the sign
jasujazumdinski
Permit Process
See these web pages for additional information regarding the permitting process:
Permit Process
Application Submission
Download the Sign Permit Application(PDF, 327KB)
All other work types other than Minor Alteration requires submission of construction drawings to OneStopPGH.
Application Review
Permit Issuance
Permit Inspections
Special Inspections are required for signs installed over 30 feet above grade.
Permit Completion
Please see Other Agency Coordination for processes related to other agencies that may relate to your permit scope. For commercial sign permits:
Zoning Development Review application (ZDR) submission is required for all signs.
Department of Mobility and Infrastructure (DOMI) for signs, such as projecting signs, that encroach into the public right of way.
last updated: 04/23/2025
Back to top
Ready
jasujazumdinski