Skip to main content
opens in new tab or window
In This Section

City Planning
Mobility and Infrastructure
Permits, Licenses, and Inspections
Digital Equity In Pittsburgh
Small Business Resources
Public Works
Zoning  - Zoning FAQ
Planning Application and Process    - Fee Schedule
Property Certification
Consolidations/Subdivisions
Institutional Master Plan
Specially Planned Districts
Pre-Application Meeting

Planning Reviews, Public Notices and Public Hearings
Housing
Geographic Information Systems, Mapping &amp; Open Data
Procurement
PGH Lab
Sustainability

Consolidations/Subdivisions
What are consolidations and subdivisions?(show below)
A consolidation is when more than one lot is joined together legally to create a new single lot. A subdivision is when a lot is legally separated into more than one lot.
Why may I be required to consolidate?(show below)
Reasons for consolidation include:

For tax reasons, so that a property owner receives only one bill.
To conform to the international building code, which does not allow construction across a lot line.
For zoning requirements, to keep accessory structures such as a garage on the same lot as the primary structure.

Is a survey required?(show below)
Yes, the County will not accept your plan for recording if it is not stamped by a licensed professional.
How are consolidations and subdivisions approved?(show below)
Consolidations and subdivisions are reviewed by the Department of City Planning for compliance with the City's zoning code and subdivision ordinance. Applications for minor subdivisions and consolidations, which involve an area of land that is smaller than 50,000 square feet and do not create 8 or more new parcels, can be approved administratively. The Planning Commission holds hearings to review applications for major consolidations and subdivisions. Planning Commission meetings are held virtually. View more information about the Planning Commission.
What is the first step in the process?(show below)
Please email Zoning and Development Review if you have any questions about subdividing or consolidating lots.
You must get a subdivision or consolidation plan prepared by a licensed surveyor before submitting an application for approval.
What are the submission requirements?(show below)
Applicants are required to submit an application and a subdivision or consolidation plan, prepared by a licensed surveyor, online through OneStopPGH.
The subdivision regulations(PDF, 3MB) are available.
How much is the fee?(show below)
The application fee is $175 for minor applications and $200 for major applications. Application Fees are non-refundable.
Should the applicant attend the hearing?(show below)
Major subdivisions and consolidations are presented by Staff, who are able to answer questions from Planning Commission. Applicants can attend the hearing, but are not required to participate.
What happens when a consolidation or subdivision is approved?(show below)
The registered surveyor or applicant should contact the Zoning Division after the scheduled Commission Hearing to obtain the approved plan. The plan must then be taken to the Allegheny County Real Estate Department for recording. Their office is located at 542 Forbes Avenue. After the plan is recorded, the applicant is required to contact the City Planning Department with the Plan Book volume and page number.
jasujazumdinski
Contact Us
For any additional information, please email subdivisions@pittsburghpa.gov.
last updated: 04/24/2025
Back to top
Ready
jasujazumdinski