Grandview Overlook
136-160Grandview Avenue
Pittsburgh Pennsylvania 15211
Outdoor Experiences
Information
Open 24 hours a day -7 days a week
412-281-7711
Visit Website
Get Directions
lat: 40.4344641 long: -80.0113665
The Grandview Overlook boasts the perfect view of Pittsburgh’s Golden Triangle.  The Overlook, as it is called by locals, is located on Mount Washington, a 450-foot hill that is popular among residents and tourists alike.
Mount Washington was used as a strategic vantage point for early settlers and, by the early 19th century, was known as Coal Hill after it was settled by immigrant factory workers. The steep hill, however, was hard to climb even with the assistance of switchbacks and stairs.
In the 1870s, several inclines were built to ascend the hill. These inclines allowed not only people but also horses and goods to be sent up the hill more easily, spurring the development of the Mt. Washington neighborhood.
The Overlook runs the length of Mount Washington and provides vantage points of Pittsburgh’s beautiful Skyline. There are three options to get to the Overlook:
the Duquesne Incline
the Monongahela Incline
the windy P.J McArdle Roadway.
Any way you take to the Overlook boasts impressive views and scenery.
The Overlook boasts “Restaurant Row,” BBC recently named Pittsburgh as one of the top 10 destinations for foodies. It is the only U.S site to make the list. Restaurants like the Monterey Bay Fish Grotto, The Summit, Altius, La Tavola, and LeMont are all impressive, up-scale restaurants located on Restaurant Row and are all worth a trip.
The Grandview Overlook is also located within the impressive Emerald View Park, a 257-acre park that consists of the Grandview Scenic Byway, and three historic spaces; the Grandview Overlook, Olympia, and Mount Washington.
Grandview Overlook is a must-see view of Pittsburgh with impressive eateries surrounding it! It is a perfect spot to watch a gorgeous Pittsburgh sunset.
PreviousNext
Get Directions
jasujazumdinski
Other Attractions
Celilo Park
View Listing
Cullaby Lake County Park
View Listing
Historic Locust Grove
View Listing
Glen Otto Park
View Listing
St. Andre Orchard
View Listing
Arbor Day Farm Tree Adventure
View Listing
Lewis & Clark Trail News
Our bi-weekly newsletter provides news, history, and information for those interested in traveling along along the Lewis & Clark Trail.
First Name
Last Name
Email (required) *
Select list(s) to subscribe toL&C News
Example: Yes, I would like to receive emails from Lewis and Clark Trail Experience. (You can unsubscribe anytime)
Constant Contact Use. Please leave this field blank.
By submitting this form, you are consenting to receive the Lewis and Clark Travel Experience newsletter provided by the Lewis & Clark Trail Alliance. You can revoke your consent at any time by using the SafeUnsubscribe® link, found at the bottom of every email. Emails are serviced by Constant Contact.
Submit an Attraction \|
Submit an Event \|
Submit Feedback
<
jasujazumdinski