Skip to main content
opens in new tab or window
In This Section

City Planning
Mobility and Infrastructure
Permits, Licenses, and Inspections
Digital Equity In Pittsburgh
Small Business Resources
Public Works
Zoning
Geographic Information Systems, Mapping &amp; Open Data
Procurement
PGH Lab
Sustainability  - Climate Action Plan
Resilient Pittsburgh
Food Systems    - Local Food Is More Sustainable
Community Supported Agriculture
Urban Agriculture
Food Access Programs
Food Waste
Children, Gardens, and Healthy Food
Food Related Events
Internships and Career Opportunities
Food Systems Resources

Sustainability &amp; Resilience Library
Building Benchmarking Compliance
Affiliations &amp; Memberships
Environmental Planning and Review

Food Access Programs
Food Insecurity
One in five Pittsburgh residents is food insecure. This means that over 60,000 residents struggle to have healthy, adequate, and culturally appropriate food.
Food insecurity exists when a family is unable to provide enough food for each member of their household to live a healthy, active life. This is a problem that millions of people across the United States face every day, and a variety of situations can cause a family to become food insecure, including lay-offs, accidents, and illness. Some causes of food insecurity are more systemic, but no matter the cause, the effects of food insecurity have a wide impact. Food insecurity can cause serious health problems, inhibit a child’s development, and force seniors living on a fixed income to choose between food and health care.
The 2020 FeedPGH Report(PDF, 16MB) describes the four dimensions of food insecurity, based on the United Nation’s 2018 report, identifies 23 Healthy Food Priority Areas in Pittsburgh through extensive mapping, outlines the City's goals to achieve Zero Hunger, and pinpoints some key next steps.
The FeedPGH City Council District Food Security Analysis(PDF, 8MB) provides insight into food insecurity in each Council District. Considering factors such as household poverty, vehicle ownership, fresh food store walk-ability, and diet-related chronic disease, the city has determined Healthy Food Priority Areas. These areas are the places of highest need and require focused effort in order to promote food equity in Pittsburgh.
The HFPA Dashboard can be used to explore the underlying data and equity metrics.
jasujazumdinski
Resources
If you’re struggling to make ends meet, or know someone who could use a little help, there are resources available.

Fresh Access Food Bucks
Greater Pittsburgh Community Food Bank
Just Harvest
Supplemental Nutrition &amp; Assistance (SNAP)
Women, Infants, and Children (WIC) Food Program
BigBurgh

last updated: 04/24/2025
Back to top
Ready
jasujazumdinski