Skip to main content
opens in new tab or window
In This Section

Parks  - Our Parks
For Kids
For Seniors
Dog Parks
Tennis
CitiSports
Outdoor Activities
City Farms
Community Garden Plots    - Community Garden Plots Form
Pools
Events
Park Facilities
Special Events
Film &amp; Event Management
Park Permits
About Parks

Community Garden Plots

Gardeners of all experience levels are welcome to rent a plot and grow their own food in following Pittsburgh community gardens. City of Pittsburgh Community Gardens are available for City of Pittsburgh residents only.
Beechview Community Garden
This garden is located in Beechview. It has many plots and offers large raised beds. It is located near the Vanucci Playground between Westfield St and Rockland Ave. There are roughly 50 plots in this garden and gardeners of all experience levels are welcome as there are many vacancies.

Bandi Schaum Community Garden
This garden is located on the site of an old baseball field in Southside. It is a project of the City of Pittsburgh in conjunction with Southside Slopes Neighborhood Association, South Side Community Council, and Grow Pittsburgh. This garden has over 75 in-ground plots of various sizes. Bandi Schaum Community Garden is a very vibrant, active and well-maintained garden. This is a good garden for beginners as the plots are smaller and there is a large community to assist you. You can find more information on the Bandi Schaum website. You may also see a map of the Highland Park Neighborhood.

jasujazumdinski
Highland Park Community Garden
This garden is located on Stanton Ave in Highland Park. This is an extremely large garden with roughly 40 in-ground plots. Each plot averages 20x20 feet, with some variation. Gardeners of all experience levels are welcome, although the plots are very large and may be easier for an experienced gardener to maintain.

Morningside Community Garden at Heth's Playground
Located on Bryant Street in Morningside at Heth's Playground, this community garden has fewer than ten (10) in-ground plots that have a small group of dedicated gardeners who return year after year.
last updated: 04/17/2025
Back to top
Ready
jasujazumdinski