Skip to main content
opens in new tab or window
Mobility and Infrastructure
Vision Zero Community Agreement
Whether you live in, work in, or visit Pittsburgh, everyone has a role to play in street safety. Sign the community agreement to help us achieve our goal of zero traffic deaths and serious injuries on our roadways.
View Agreement Details

Our Mission
Provide the physical mobility necessary to support the social and economic mobility of the people of Pittsburgh through the management, design, improvement, and operation of the public right of way.
What We Do
The Department is responsible for the transportation of people and goods throughout the City of Pittsburgh, and for managing the operation of and access to the public right-of-way (the sidewalks, curbs, streets, and bridges that make up our network).
City's Mobility Principles

No one dies or is seriously injured traveling on city streets.
Every household in Pittsburgh can access fresh fruits and vegetables within 20 minutes travel of home, without the requirement of a private vehicle.
All trips less than 1 mile are easily and enjoyably achieved by non-vehicle travel.
No household must spend more than 45% of household income to satisfy basic housing, transportation and energy needs.
The design, maintenance and operation of city streets reflects the values of our community.

Research finds that access to transportation is the factor most likely to influence household economic success. With this in mind, the mission of the Department of Mobility and Infrastructure is to provide the transportation mobility essential to the economic mobility of all Pittsburghers.

About Mobility and Infrastructure\
\
Learn about the Department of Mobility and Infrastructure key mobility principles, innovative leadership, and organizational structure that guide their mission to create a safer, more accessible city for all residents.
Maps\
\
Welcome to the Department of Mobility and Infrastructures map hub! Here you can explore several mapped data sets on a variety of subjects that we use to inform our work.
Plans\
\
Discover Pittsburgh's Department of Mobility and Infrastructure's role in planning and design, from multimodal networks and transportation facility design to collaborating with regional partners for infrastructure improvements. See how DOMI shapes the city's future today!
Current DOMI Projects\
\
Explore Pittsburgh's Department of Mobility and Infrastructure's latest projects. Check out detailed information on transportation and infrastructure initiatives across various neighborhoods. Stay updated on progress and find out what's happening in your area today.
Transportation Development Review\
\
Explore the Transportation Development Review page to see how Pittsburgh's Department of Mobility and Infrastructure (DOMI) manages safe transportation for all. Learn about site plan reviews, impact studies, ROW permits, and more to understand how Pittsburgh shapes its multimodal network.
Right-of-Way Management\
\
Discover user-friendly guides for applying for various permits, accessing plan reviews, and staying informed about fee changes and application requirements through the OneStopPGH portal.
Back to top
Ready
jasujazumdinski