Skip to main content
opens in new tab or window
In This Section

Parks
Pools
Events
Park Facilities
Special Events
Film &amp; Event Management
Park Permits  - Reserve Park Shelter
Sports Field Permit
About Parks

Sports Field Permit
Athletic field and court permit requests can be made via the online form below. If you are unable to submit a request via the form, phone or in-person reservations will be done by appointment only. Please email dpwfields&amp;parkshelters@pittsburghpa.gov to schedule if you are unable to use our online service.

What is a Field/Court Permit?
Field and Court Permits allow the public to reserve an outdoor athletic facility for usage.

Field/Court Information(PDF, 136KB)
Our Parks
The fee for adult field/court usage is $23.00 per hour.
If you are looking to permit an outdoor tennis/pickleball court, please visit the CitiParks Tennis Permit Rules page.
For more information on indoor athletic facilities, please visit the CitiParks Recreation Center page.

Field/Court Permit Application and Required Documentation
For athletic field and court rental inquiries, please complete the application below. ALL permitting of fields/courts (including one day use) require a fully completed application.

Athletic Field/Court Use Guidelines &amp; Policy(PDF, 681KB)
Field and Court Permit Application

Player Roster(PDF, 298KB) - All teams must submit a player roster prior to approval and issuance of the permit.

Rosters must include name, complete address, phone number and age of each player.

Game and Practice Schedule(PDF, 329KB) - All teams must submit a game and practice schedule prior to approval and issuance of the permit on the supplied form.
The applicant organization or team must have liability insurance.
Example certificate of insurance copy(PDF, 947KB).

jasujazumdinski
Meetings

Permitting Meeting 1.7.25(PDF, 1MB)
Permitting Meeting 1.9.24(PDF, 2MB)
Permitting Meeting 2.7.23(PDF, 1014KB)
Permitting Meeting 1.5.22(PDF, 385KB)

Rules and Regulations

Preference will be given to City of Pittsburgh residents when permits are issued.
Falsification of applications or roster will result in immediate cancellation of permit and loss of fee.
At the end of the permitted time, the permit holder must relinquish the field, unless the next permit holder of the following permitted time consents to the continuation of the game.
Park hours are 6:00 a.m. to 11:00 p.m. with exceptions if noted within the permit. (Ordinance 473.07a)
Permits are non-transferable.
No fees may be charged for admission to any part of the premises.
No alcoholic beverages permitted. (Ordinance 473.05a)
Vehicles are to park in approved (parking lots, off street, etc.) parking locations only.
Vehicles are not to park on the grass and will be ticketed and towed. (Ordinance 473.01a)
Service roads are for authorized government vehicles only, not the permit holder and/or guests.
No permanent markings on hard surfaces or trees.
Violators will be charged for removal or damages. (Ordinance 473.01a1)
Do not attach any sign, advertisement or notice to any tree or shrub. (Ordinance 483.01)
The City has the right and authority to eject from the property any person acting in violation of any park rule or regulation. (Ordinance 473.07f)
The City has the right and the authority to seize and confiscate any property, thing or device in the park that is violation of any park rule or regulation. (Ordinance 473.07g)
The Department of Public Works reserves the right to revoke or change any permit at any time. No person in a park shall disturb or interfere unreasonably with any person or party occupying any area, or participating in any activity, under authority of a valid permit. (Ordinance 473.05)

jasujazumdinski
Contact Us
Public Works Permits Office
412 Blvd of the Allies, 4th Floor
Pittsburgh, PA 15219
Email: dpwfields&amp;parkshelters@pittsburghpa.gov
Phone: 412-742-3413
last updated: 04/17/2025
Back to top
Ready
jasujazumdinski