opens in new tab or window
In This Section
City Planning
Mobility and Infrastructure
Permits, Licenses, and Inspections  - Applications & Forms
OneStopPGH
Permits    - About PLI
Residential Permits
Commercial Permits
Permit Process
Work Not Requiring a Permit
Licenses
Bulletins
Community Resources
Code Enforcement
Condemned Buildings
PLI Fees
Building Codes
Appeals
PLI Contacts
Announcements
Registrations
Digital Equity In Pittsburgh
Small Business Resources
Public Works
Zoning
Geographic Information Systems, Mapping & Open Data
Procurement
PGH Lab
Sustainability
Permits
Permit Configuration
Permits, Licenses & Inspections (PLI) permit applications and associated requirements are configured based on permit type, structure type, work type, and work scope. Please see work not requiring a permit for work that can be performed without a PLI permit.
Permit Type
PLI regulates construction by issuing a separate permit for types of work and for each system type as follows: building, demolition, land operations, signs, electrical systems, mechanical systems (including fuel gas), fire alarm systems, and suppression systems permits. PLI also issues permits that do not include construction as follows: occupancy only, and occupant load placard permits. Please note that Allegheny County Health Department Plumbing Division is responsible for plumbing permits.
The following types of work require a permit:
To construct, enlarge, alter, repair, move, demolish or change the occupancy of a building, structure, and facility.
To erect, install, enlarge, alter, repair, remove, convert or replace any electrical, gas, mechanical, or plumbing system.
jasujazumdinski
Structure Type
Residential Structures and Commercial Structures types are defined as the following.
Residential – single-family:
Applicable to detached single-family dwellings and townhouses that are 3 stories or less in height regulated by the International Residential Code.
Applicable to structures accessory to the dwelling.
Not applicable if other uses beyond the dwelling unit are present in the structure.
Residential – two-family:
Applicable to detached two-family dwellings that are 3 stories or less in height regulated by the International Residential Code.
Applicable to structures accessory to the dwelling.
Not applicable if other uses beyond the dwelling units are present in the structure.
Commercial – all other uses:
Applies to structures regulated by the International Building Code;
Applicable to attached single-family and two-family dwellings and accessory structures;
Applicable to detached single-family and two-family dwellings that more than 3 stories in height and accessory structures;
Applicable to dwelling units in mixed-use structure (contains non-residential uses);
Applicable to non-residential uses.
Work Type
Work Types are defined generally as:
New Construction: applicable for new buildings.
Addition / Alteration: applicable for existing buildings and accessory structures.
Minor Alteration: applicable for existing buildings with a valid Certificate of Occupancy. Single-family dwellings and townhouses do not require Certificates of Occupancy.
jasujazumdinski
Work Scope
Work Scope is specific for each structure type, permit type, and work type.
Permit Process
The permit process consists of the following steps:
Application Submission
Application Review
Permit Issuance
Permit Inspections
Permit Completion
Work Not Requiring a Permit
Stop! Your demolition may also require a permit from the Allegheny County Health Department for Asbestos Abatement. Learn more and avoid fines of up to $25,000 at their Asbestos Renovation Guide.
last updated: 04/23/2025
Back to top
Ready
jasujazumdinski