opens in new tab or window
National Night Out
Open side Menu
Resources
Registered Events
Contact Us
National Night Out
Pause
Previous
Next
Press left and right keys to move between slides.
1
2
3
4
5
National Night Out (NNO) is a community-building campaign that culminates annually on the first Tuesday in August. This year it is scheduled for Tuesday, August 5, 2025. Neighborhoods across the nation host block parties, festivals, cookouts and various other community events with safety demonstrations, seminars, youth events, visits from public safety personnel, and much, much more.
National Night Out (NNO) promotes police-community partnerships and neighborhood camaraderie to make our communities safer, more caring places to live. Additionally, it provides a great opportunity to bring police and other first responders together with residents under positive circumstances. The program enhances the relationship between neighbors, law enforcement and first responders while bringing back a true sense of community.
What have other Pittsburgh neighborhoods done?
Caption: Ideas: Organize a kickball game, Invite Public Safety Personnel to demonstrate equipment and educate, hold a BBQ, host musical group or DJ, or turning on porch lights and spending the evening with neighbors.
How do I start?
Click here to register your 2025 NNO Event. The Department of Public Safety’s National Night Out resources page is where you’ll find contact information to coordinate your event with a Safer Together Pittsburgh Coordinator, helpful links, and the City of Pittsburgh’s National Night Out Planning Guide to help you plan your own neighborhood celebration!
jasujazumdinski
National Night Out 2024
Even in light of the severe weather that we all experienced, many events went on as planned, while other celebrations were either moved indoors or were temporarily postponed and rescheduled for some time during the following two weeks after!
As a matter of history, we’ve grown from a total of 14 NNO celebrations in 2014, back to 32 events in 2022 after surviving a 1-year hiatus due to Covid. Last year we registered a amazing total of 37 NNO celebrations across the City’s neighborhoods!
We eagerly anticipate even more neighborhoods registering and collaborating with the city to host grand celebrations with family, neighbors, friends, and public safety personnel across the city this summer. We are ready to assist and support you in your NNO 2025 planning and participation to help make Pittsburgh Safer Together!
Resources
Registered Events
Contact Us
Back to top
Ready
jasujazumdinski