opens in new tab or window
In This Section
Trash & Recycling  - Collection Schedule and Newsletter
Curbside Pick Up
Commercial Recycling
Special Event Recycling
Drop-Off Info & Additional Resources    - Recycling Drop-Off Locations
Electronic Waste and Household Hazardous Waste Disposal
Waste Disposal Resources
Christmas Tree Recycling
Zero Waste
Let's Talk Trash Webinar
Anti-Litter and Illegal Dumping
311
A - Z: Frequently Visited
ADA & Disability Rights
Snow Removal
Road Maintenance
Food Programs
Pets & Animals
Community Programming
Immigrant and Refugee Affairs
Tree Resources
Zero Waste
Pittsburgh's Journey to Zero Waste
One of the greenest and most visible ways to manage materials sustainability is to implement the tactics of Zero Waste.
The City of Pittsburgh is working to increase its diversion and strive for Zero Waste by 2030. In an effort to accomplish this goal, it will take city-wide participation from all sectors to eliminate products that are "destined for landfill." The production and disposal of materials result in broad environmental and social impacts associated with obtaining raw materials, manufacturing and emissions from landfills.
The Zero Waste International Alliance defines zero waste as the diversion of at least 90% of waste from landfills or incineration. With help from 100 Resilient Cities, the City of Pittsburgh has developed a Roadmap to Zero Waste(PDF, 602KB), laying out a strategic plan to achieve this 90% diversion rate city-wide by 2030.
We’ve all heard “ Reduce, Reuse. Recycle” But you may not know that these waste reduction strategies are listed in order of importance or effectiveness.
It starts with prevention or reduction, and over-consumption is a key factor. It begins in the store. Whenever possible, drive to the store to pick up the item you need to reduce your cardboard and packaging usage. Then, next in order of effectiveness is reuse. This step is effective for durable goods that still have some life. Then recycling when the item needs to be broken down into its components to be made into something else. Next is energy recovery, allowing for the collection of methane gas from landfills to be used as natural gas for heating and energy or electricity from incineration. And finally, at the bottom of the inverted pyramid – disposal.
jasujazumdinski
How Will We Get There?
Reducing waste in commercial establishments
Reducing waste at events
Engaging Pittsburgh's residents, businesses, and institutions in Zero Waste
Exploring new ways to reduce and divert waste
All sectors have the opportunity to practice waste avoidance, reduce single-use plastics, and compost with some dedication and practice. The City of Pittsburgh encourages everyone to find viable ways to eliminate waste going in and out of their homes, schools, institutions, and facilities.
Zero Waste Resources
Below are several vendors, consultants, and establishments that can help you reduce your waste!
A full list of event-related vendors and contractors can be found in the Sustainable Events Guide. Note: The listing of a business, nonprofit, or establishment does not signify endorsement by the City of Pittsburgh. If you’d like to see your business or group listed here, please contact Environmental Services at (412) 255-2631.
Refuse & Reduce Paper (junk mail, phonebooks, magazines)
Take back control of your mailbox!
Catalog Choice
Catalog Choice is a non-profit organization that works on your behalf to process opt-out requests for more than 10,000 catalog/junk mail titles.
- DMA Choice
The Direct Marketing Association (DMA) is a member organization of direct mailers. The DMAChoice is an online tool for consumers to manage their mail preferences and to opt-out of unwanted junk mail.
- OptOutPrescreen.com
OptOutPrescreen.com is the Consumer Credit Reporting Industry's website for consumers to opt-in/opt-out of firm offers for credit and insurance.
- Paper Retriever
Paper Retriever, hosted by Royal Oak, is a free revenue-generating service that pays you based on volume and market to host collection bins on your property, benefitting both the environment and your organization.
- Yellow Pages Opt-Out
The National Yellow Pages Consumer Choice and Opt-Out site allows residents to opt-out of the delivery of local directory publications.
jasujazumdinski
Reduce Packaging, Buy in Bulk
Cut down on packaging by avoiding individually wrapped and single-use items. Invest in re-usable shopping bags or totes to use when you shop. Local stores that promote bulk purchasing:
East End Food Co-op
Natural and organic food market that focuses on fresh, local, and organic foods with many bulk and bring-your-own-container purchasing options.
- Whole Foods
Food store that concentrates on natural and organic foods with some bulk and bring-your-own-container purchasing options.
- Giant Eagle – Market District Locations
Local grocery chain with an increasing number of bulk purchasing options
- Costco
Wholesale warehouse that focuses exclusively on bulk purchases.
Reduce & Conserve Energy
Green Mountain Energy
Works with your current energy supplier to offer clean, renewable energy service plans.
- Zero Fossil Energy Outfitters
An event production company that employs sustainable equipment and practices. Includes power distribution, sound, lighting, staging, and educational interactives, all powered by renewable energy generators.
Reuse
Center for Creative Reuse
Nonprofit art supply shop that sells donated used art and craft supplies and hosts programming about the benefits of reuse.
- Construction Junction
Nonprofit that sells donated building materials and furniture and coordinates deconstruction efforts to salvage usable items for unoccupied properties. Pick-up and drop-off services available.
- Reuse Fest
Yearly festival hosted by Pennsylvania Resources Council to donate gently used materials – from clothing to building materials to dog beds – to local nonprofits. Check website for full list of accepted items.
jasujazumdinski
Rot / Compost
Under City code 619, residents are allowed to compost in their backyards. Many retailers sell compost bins in various sizes. If backyard composting isn’t feasible, below are vendors offering commercial options for business and/or alternative options for residents.
AgRecycle – (412) 242-7645
Local industrial composter, ideal for commercial businesses and event hauling.
- Pennsylvania Resources Council
PRC hosts backyard composting workshops seasonally. Each workshop includes a free compost bin.
- Shadyside Worms
Curbside vermicompost exchange that services the East End, from the Strip District to Wilkinsburg.
- Worm Return
Provides hauling and bin services for small-medium business and organizations as well as consulting and live worms for vermicomposting to those interested in composting their waste
- Zero Waste Wrangler
Provides hauling and bin services for small-medium business and organizations interested in composting their waste.
Hard to Recycle
City of Pittsburgh Department of Public Works
Tire collection program at East End Drop-Off Center, Hazelwood Drop-off Center, and West End Drop-Off Center.
- Pennsylvania Resources Council + City of Pittsburgh Electronic Waste Recycling
Tuesday and Thursday drop-off hosted at Environmental Services in Strip District and heavily subsidized by the City of Pittsburgh. Drop-offs are hosted twice per week and must be scheduled in advance.
- Liberty Tire
Tire recycling with pickup and drop-off services.
last updated: 07/11/2025
Back to top
Ready
jasujazumdinski