opens in new tab or window
In This Section
Mayor
City Controller
City Council
Boards, Authorities, Commissions
Legal Services  - Department of Law    - Core Services
Filing a Claim with Law
Right to Know
Acceptance of Service of Process
Historic City Solicitors
Office of Equal Protection
Commission on Human Relations
Ethics Hearing Board
Office of Municipal Investigations
City Ordinances
File a Claim with Law
Right to Know
Jobs
Finance & Budget
Contacts & Information
Core Services
The Law Department is divided into seven sections or divisions which perform different functions:
The Litigation Section defends the City against all lawsuits in which the City is a party. This includes representing the City at all levels of the Commonwealth and Federal Court Systems. The four primary areas of law involved in these actions are:
Tort
Civil Rights
Employment
Construction.
The General Municipal Section provides a variety of services including:
defense of ordinances against claims of unconstitutionality
preparation and review of all City contracts
bankruptcy claims
cable television matters.
real estate questions
environmental matters
other proceedings before regulatory agencies.
The Tax Division handles counseling the Department of Finance on matters regarding City taxation.
The Zoning & Planning Section provides services including:
advising the Department of Planning
responding to the Zoning Board of Adjustment as required by the Code
The Law Department also participates in certain zoning proceedings deemed of vital interest to the City.
The Claims Division processes claims and recommends payment or settlement in proper cases.
The Office of Labor Relations is responsible for all labor negotiations and contract administration for the nine collective bargaining units representing various City employees.
The Real Estate Division processes all legal transactions related to the acquisition/sale and resale of property acquired by the City of Pittsburgh through Treasurer's Sales for delinquent real estate taxes via the Court of Common Pleas of Allegheny County. This division handles title problems such as:
real estate
assists taxpayers with redemption of property, etc.
last updated: 07/03/2025
Back to top
Ready
jasujazumdinski