opens in new tab or window
In This Section
Mayor
City Controller
City Council  - Districts
Clerk's Office    - What is a City Clerk?
Kimberly Clark-Baskin, CMC, City Clerk
City Clerk Functions
City Ordinances
Council Meeting Schedule
Rules of Council
Legislative Information Center
Records Management Division
Inter-municipal Liquor License Application
Home Rule Charter
Procedures
Business Processes
City Clerk Contacts
Clerk News
Clerk's Press Releases
Neighborhoods & Wards
Legislative Information
Council Budget Office
City Council Contacts
Boards, Authorities, Commissions
Legal Services
Jobs
Finance & Budget
Contacts & Information
City Clerk Functions
The official functions and duties of the City Clerk are set forth in Chapter 153 of the Pittsburgh Code. The following is a general summary of core services provided by the City Clerk's Office. The City Clerk's Office provides City Council with centralized staff support under the direction of the City Clerk.
The City Clerk is appointed by members of City Council every three years and is responsible for the due, proper and faithful performance of all operational matters of City Council.
Other Duties
In addition to its mission of maintaining the official records of the City of Pittsburgh, the Office of the City Clerk also:
Maintains custody, control, filing, and storage of all legislation, books, papers, minutes, and other written and recorded documents about the operation of City government.
Oversees, guides, and tracks the entire legislative process from introduction of proposed legislation to final approval and publication.
Creates meeting agendas for all Council members.
Coordinates and schedules City Council meetings, public hearings, and post agendas, as well as recording each meeting for permanent record.
Accepts petitions filed by citizens.
Furnishes copies of all legislation, orders, certificates, meeting notices, and other matters of public information to the general public.
Acts as a liaison with City departments, outside agencies, other branches of governments, and the general public on behalf of City Council.
Responsible for the publication, updating and distribution of the Pittsburgh Code of Ordinances.
Works in cooperation with the City Cable Bureau for the cablecasting of all Council’s Regular and Standing Committees Meeting, Public Hearings, and Post Agenda
Meetings as specified by City Council.
last updated: 06/11/2025
Back to top
Ready
jasujazumdinski