Skip to main content
opens in new tab or window
In This Section

City Planning
Mobility and Infrastructure
Permits, Licenses, and Inspections
Digital Equity In Pittsburgh  - Community Collaborations
Media and Information Resources
Small Business Resources
Public Works
Zoning
Geographic Information Systems, Mapping &amp; Open Data
Procurement
PGH Lab
Sustainability

Community Collaborations
Overview
In 2022 the Pittsburgh Digital Equity Coalition was founded by Allegheny County Executive Rich Fitzgerald, Mayor Ed Gainey and twenty local service organizations with the goal of creating a community strategic plan. Mayor Ed Gainey's administration knows that there is a gap between the haves and have nots when it comes to access, availability, services and skills training. These four areas have been identified in the text of the Pittsburgh Digital Equity Coalition's Community Strategic Plan. Mayor Gainey recognized that while often touted as a leader in technology and livability, thanks in part to world-class universities and a booming robotics industry, supporting resources haven’t always reached all residents in the Pittsburgh region.
The Plan
A coordinated effort led by County and City officials along with leaders from other anchor institutions provided the Pittsburgh region with the opportunity to submit well-rounded applications for enough funding to make digital equity a reality in the years to come. This plan comprehensively addresses the gaps in digital skills, low-cost high-speed internet services, as well as access to devices and technical assistance. Please click the button below to read the full plan.
PDEC Community Strategic Plan
2022
-PDEC created by a number of regional community service organizations
2023
-Community Strategic Plan created (link to PDEC member organizations page)
-Pittsburgh recognized by NDIA as a Digital Trailblazer for digital equity efforts
2024
-PDEC joined with more organizations in the Greater Pittsburgh Digital Inclusion Alliance to apply for FTIA funding under President Biden.
-NTIA chooses Pittsburgh’s Ammon Recreation Center to make their national announcement of $1.25 billion in digital equity grants and to celebrate Pittsburgh’s digital equity efforts.
-Pittsburgh receives second NDIA Digital Trailblazer award.
-CitiParks Rec2Tech program was awarded Pennsylvania Broadband Development Authority Grant, which was used to purchase 100 computers for use in programming.
-Rec2Tech worked with upwards of 300 students throughout the Rec Centers. Classes including Ammons, Greenfield, Jefferson, and Paulson Recreation centers with some recurring and new students.
2025
-Mayor Ed Gainey will support the GPDIA as they apply for more funds to improve residents’ connectivity.
-Mayor Gainey has further plans to announce additional internet infrastructure improvements.
jasujazumdinski
GPDIA Members
After releasing the PDEC plan, the members of PDEC pivoted to a countywide strategy under new organization the Greater Pittsburgh Digital Inclusion Alliance.
Achieva
Age-Friendly Greater Pittsburgh
AgeWell at the JCC
Allegheny County Economic Development
Allegheny County Housing Authority
Allegheny County Library Association
Allegheny Intermediate Unit
Allies for Children
Anna Middleton Waite Learning Center
Carnegie Library of Pittsburgh
Carnegie Mellon University - CS Pathways Programs
City of Pittsburgh - Office of Innovation and Performance
Community College of Allegheny County
Computer Reach
CONNECT
Goodwill of Southwestern Pennsylvania
Greater Pittsburgh Community Food Bank
Housing Authority of the City of Pittsburgh
Jewish Family &amp; Community Services
Latino Community Center
Literacy Pittsburgh
Neighborhood Allies
Partner4Work
Persad Center
Pitt Information Technology
Pittsburgh Technology Council
PA Department of Military and Veterans Affairs, Southwestern Veterans Center
Southwestern PA Commission
STEM Coding Lab
The Education Partnership
United Way of Southwestern PA
UPMC Health Plan - Digital Health Strategy and Solutions
Urban League of Greater Pittsburgh
Vintage Center for Active Adults
Western Pennsylvania Regional Data Center
YWCA Westmoreland County
last updated: 04/24/2025
Back to top
Ready
jasujazumdinski