Skip to main content
opens in new tab or window
jasujazumdinski
Mobility &amp; Infrastructure
Download Article to PDF
Previous column Next column
| Title | Article | Post Date |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Neighborhood Traffic Calming Construction Coming to Arlington Avenue | Neighborhood Traffic Calming Construction Coming to Arlington AvenuePITTSBURGH — The City of Pittsburgh Department of Mobility and Infrastructure (DOMI) is pleased to announce upcoming traffic calming measures on Arlington Avenue from Frederick Street to Fitler Street. The project straddles the neighborhoods of South Side Slopes and Arlington, and the Borough of Mount Oliver.Data collected in 2020 and 2021 indicated that more than 50% of vehicles travelling on each street exceeded the posted speed limit of 25 mph, with 85th percentile speeds over 34 mph or more. The rate of speeding along with crash history in these areas indicated a strong need for traffic calming intervention.This project will include the construction of four speed cushions. Speed cushions are midblock traffic calming devices that raise the entire wheelbase of a vehicle to reduce its speed. Permanent signage and pavement markings will be installed to alert motorists of approaching speed cushions.Work is tentatively expected to begin on September 27, 2022. During construction, one lane of traffic on Arlington Avenue will be closed to traffic, with flaggers stationed at each end in order to allow local traffic access to and from their residences.Construction is expected to last two days, weather permitting. Hours of construction will be 7:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. Temporary no parking signage will be posted throughout the corridor where work is taking place.For any questions about this project or other traffic calming projects, individuals may contact DOMI by email at trafficcalming@pittsburghpa.gov, or by calling 311. Additional information about these projects and the traffic calming program can be found here. ### | 26/9/2022 17:27:27 |
| Department of Mobility and Infrastructure to Host Public Meeting for the Davis Avenue Bridge Reconstruction Project | Department of Mobility and Infrastructure to Host Public Meeting for the Davis Avenue Bridge Reconstruction ProjectPITTSBURGH — The City of Pittsburgh Department of Mobility and Infrastructure (DOMI), in cooperation with Pittsburgh Parks Conservancy, invites the public to attend a virtual public meeting for the Davis Avenue Bridge Reconstruction Project.DOMI will conduct the public hearing on Thursday, September 29, to discuss project details, and offers an opportunity to learn about final design and what to expect during construction. The project team will also be available to answer questions. The meeting details are as follows: - Date: September 29, 2022 - Time: 7:00 p.m.-8:30 p.m. - Join Zoom Meeting: https://us06web.zoom.us/j/82148408637- Join via Phone: (646) 558-8656- Meeting ID: 821 4840 8637The Davis Avenue bridge reconstruction project aims to reconnect the Brighton Heights neighborhood to Riverview Park. The previous bridge, constructed in 1898, featured ingenuity for its day, however the bridge lacked modern awareness into necessary safety and maintenance features. It also had limited capacity for heavily-loaded vehicles. Ultimately, the bridge was demolished by the city in 2009.  The new Davis Avenue bridge will function as a bike and pedestrian bridge and feature contemporary building designs, materials, and insights—while emulating the aesthetic established by the prior bridge. Engineering is now underway with the design team anticipating final plans by the end of 2022.Design and construction costs for the project are currently estimated to be approximately $5M and work is anticipated to begin in Spring 2023. For more information, individuals are encouraged to visit the project’s EngagePGH website: https://engage.pittsburghpa.gov/davis-avenue-bridge.Any individual who requires an accommodation for effective communication or a modification of policies or procedures to attend and/or participate in this meeting should contact the City of Pittsburgh ADA Coordinator, Hillary Roman, at hillary.roman@pittsburghpa.gov or 412-598-6759. ### | 28/9/2022 17:27:22 |
| Construction Beginning on Phase 1 of Stanton Avenue Complete Street | Construction Beginning on Phase 1 of Stanton Avenue Complete StreetPITTSBURGH — The Department of Mobility and Infrastructure is pleased to announce the construction of traffic calming measures on Stanton Avenue from McCandless Avenue to Chislett Street in Stanton Heights. The project includes traffic calming measures, enhanced pedestrian safety throughout the corridor, and a dedicated uphill bicycle climbing lane that benefit all road users by making the space safer and more accessible.Data collected in 2019 indicated that more than 76% of vehicles traveling on Stanton Avenue exceeded the posted speed limit of 25 mph, with 85th percentile speeds at or over 30 mph. The rate of speeding along with crash history in this area indicated a strong need for a traffic calming intervention and safety improvements.The first phase of the project will include the construction of four (4) speed cushions. Speed cushions are midblock traffic calming devices that raise the entire wheelbase of a vehicle to reduce its speed, but include specifically intended wheel cutouts to allow first response vehicles—EMS and Fire—to pass unaffected. Permanent signage and pavement markings will be installed to alert motorists of approaching speed cushions. Work is tentatively expected to begin today, October 11. One lane of traffic on Stanton Avenue will be closed to traffic, with flaggers stationed at each end in order to allow local traffic access to and from their residences. The duration of this phase of the project is expected to last two days, weather permitting. Hours of construction will be 7:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m.  Temporary no parking signage will be posted throughout the corridor where work is taking place.The next phase, also planned for October 2022, will include upgraded signage, pavement markings, and flex posts which foster safer pedestrian crossings, solidify the uphill bicycle climbing lanes, and improve sightlines for all users.Individuals looking for more information on this project can visit the City’s project engage page at: https://engage.pittsburghpa.gov/complete-streets/stanton-ave-complete-st-phase-1### | 10/10/2022 20:51:05 |
| City of Pittsburgh Announces Walk and Roll to School Day on October 12 | City of Pittsburgh Announces Walk and Roll to School Day on October 12PITTSBURGH — The City of Pittsburgh Department of Mobility and Infrastructure (DOMI) is excited to announce the Safe Routes to School (SRTS) program is hosting its biannual Walk and Roll to School Day tomorrow, October 12.The mission of Safe Routes to School is to increase the number of students biking and walking to school through education, encouragement, and safety improvements. With the goal being to create healthy communities by providing safer walking, bicycling, and riding routes while educating and uplifting students.Held twice a year, in May and October, Walk and Roll to School seeks to get families, teachers, staff, and community members moving together, while educating students and families about the benefits of taking alternate options to get students safely to and from school.“We encourage all schools in the City of Pittsburgh to register and participate in Walk and Roll to School Day”, says Harriet C. Jackson, SRTS Program Coordinator. “And for members of the general public, please slow down and drive extra cautiously around Pittsburgh’s schools tomorrow morning.”   The registered school with the most walkers and rollers will win the coveted Golden Sneaker Award. For having the most student participation, SRTS awarded Pittsburgh Brookline PreK-8 the award in May 2022.Mayor Gainey will be in attendance at Pittsburgh Arlington and representatives from PennDOT, BikePGH, and Pittsburgh Bureau of Police are volunteering by walking the routes and welcoming students as they arrive to school. Additionally, the Pittsburgh Penguin's Iceburgh mascot will be at schools to cheer on students.Individuals interested in additional information on the city’s Safe Routes to School program can visit: https://pittsburghpa.gov/domi/srts.### | 11/10/2022 17:34:28 |
| City of Pittsburgh Announces Mid-Pilot Report for the Move PGH Initiative | City of Pittsburgh Announces Mid-Pilot Report for the Move PGH InitiativePITTSBURGH — The City of Pittsburgh Department of Mobility and Infrastructure (DOMI) is excited to celebrate the one-year anniversary of the launch of Move PGH with the release of a mid-pilot report. Move PGH was introduced in July 2021 as a two-year pilot to bring together existing and new transit operators to ensure that residents’ experience of our transportation systems is equitable, efficient, and accessible.The mid-pilot report analyzes the ridership trends of Pittsburgh’s various mobility operators, including Pittsburgh Regional Transit, POGOH bikeshare, Scoobi mopeds, Spin e-scooters, and Zipcar carshare. It also highlights the successes of the first year of the Move PGH program and presents strategies for the future of transit.In just one year, there have been over 576,700 Spin e-scooter trips; 82,000 trips on POGOH bikes; 8,100 Zipcar trips; and 11,250 trips on shared Scoobi e-mopeds. By replacing private vehicle trips, Spin e-scooter journeys have taken approximately 257,000 vehicle miles off the road and stopped nearly 260,000 pounds, or 130 tons, of CO2 from entering our atmosphere.Key equity highlights have been DOMI’s work with Spin to create “Access Zones” throughout the City where there are outsized barriers to transportation—rides starting in these zones provide a 25% discount on their total trip; Zipcar piloting placement of vehicles in the Manchester neighborhood—an area characteristically different from their typical deployment areas—with cars in this location having been some of the most utilized in the Pittsburgh market; and the launch of the Guaranteed Basic Mobility pilot—an initiative to study the effects of reducing financial barriers to reliable transportation on an individual’s quality of life and economic mobility.Other successes of the program include the launch of mobile bus passes by Pittsburgh Regional Transit and the re-launch of the POGOH bikeshare network with new e-assist bikes.“The mid-pilot report is an important milestone on the path to greater mobility for the residents and visitors of Pittsburgh. Through robust data collection and analysis, we're excited to share the results of the MovePGH pilot program to date, and we know that the best is yet to come,” says Kim Lucas, Director of Mobility and Infrastructure. “DOMI thanks our partners within the Pittsburgh Mobility Collective for their contributions to not only the mid-pilot report, but also their commitment to increasing transportation options for the citizens of Pittsburgh.”This autumn, DOMI will kick off the second year of the pilot with additional mobility hubs and scooter corrals. Residents can also look forward to fuller integration of new modes of mobility into the Transit app by the end of the year. A final pilot report will be released in 2023.###About Move PGHMove PGH brings together all of Pittsburgh’s mobility operators into the Pittsburgh Mobility Collective (PMC). The PMC is a partnership of transportation service providers, led by DOMI, designed to ensure that shared mobility services are deployed equitably, efficiently, and cohesively. The PMC is leveraging public-private partnerships to build a better transportation system that integrates Pittsburgh Regional Transit services, shared electric scooters and bicycles, expanded carshare, and carpool services, using a simple trip planning mobile app and on-street locations known as mobility hubs. Individuals can read more about Move PGH here. | 12/10/2022 18:12:25 |
| Traffic Calming Coming to Kelly Street in Homewood South Neighborhood | Traffic Calming Coming to Kelly Street in Homewood South NeighborhoodPITTSBURGH — The City of Pittsburgh Department of Mobility and Infrastructure (DOMI) is pleased to announce traffic calming measures on Kelly Street between La Schall Street and Collier Street in the Homewood South neighborhood.In 2021, DOMI led a planning process to identify traffic safety, transit accessibility, and mobility improvements needed for the Homewood neighborhoods. Kelly Street was one of five traffic calming corridors identified in the plan. Data collected in 2021 indicated that more than 50% of vehicles traveling on the street exceeded the posted speed limit of 25 mph, with 85th percentile speeds at or over 33 mph. The rate of speeding along with crash history on the corridor indicated a strong need for traffic calming intervention.The project will include the construction of eight speed humps. Speed humps are midblock traffic calming devices that raise the entire wheelbase of a vehicle to reduce its speed. Permanent signage and pavement markings will be installed to alert motorists of approaching speed humps.Work is tentatively expected to begin on Thursday, October 20, 2022. The road will be closed to traffic during construction but flaggers will be stationed at each end in order to allow local traffic access to and from their residences.The duration of the project is expected to last two days, weather permitting. Hours of construction will be 7:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. Temporary no parking signage will be posted throughout the corridor where work is taking place.For any questions about this project or other traffic calming projects, individuals may contact DOMI by email at trafficcalming@pittsburghpa.gov and additional information about this project and/or the traffic calming program can be found at https://engage.pittsburghpa.gov/neighborhood-traffic-calming. For more information about the Homewood Mobility Plan, visit: https://engage.pittsburghpa.gov/Homewood-mobility-plan.### | 19/10/2022 14:47:02 |
| DOMI to Proactively Close Sidewalk on South Negley Avenue Bridge | DOMI to Proactively Close Sidewalk on South Negley Avenue BridgePITTSBURGH — City of Pittsburgh Department of Mobility and Infrastructure (DOMI) officials are alerting the public to an upcoming temporary, partial closure on the South Negley Avenue bridge. The bridge, located in the Shadyside neighborhood, spans the East Busway and Norfolk Southern railroad tracks.Pursuant from the recommendations of a routine bridge inspection earlier this month, DOMI is closing the east sidewalk to accommodate necessary repairs. The bridge’s roadway and the opposite sidewalk will remain open.DOMI is working with relevant stakeholders to address maintenance items. The east sidewalk will remain closed while a contractor is engaged to complete the needed remediation.“There is not an immediate structural concern for the bridge, but we're operating out of an abundance of caution,” stated Kim Lucas, Director of the Department of Mobility and Infrastructure.During this time, the city asks that those pedestrians travelling on the east side of South Negley Avenue to safely cross at either Ellsworth Avenue or the intersection just north of the bridge, behind the Market District Supermarket.The closure is expected to begin Wednesday, November 23.### | 23/11/2022 14:52:25 |
| Department of Mobility and Infrastructure Announces Update to Local Neighborway | Department of Mobility and Infrastructure Announces Update to Local NeighborwayPITTSBURGH — Coming next week, December 5, the Department of Mobility and Infrastructure (DOMI) will change the traffic controls along the Reynolds Street Neighborway. Impacted traffic circles will be seen at the intersections of Reynolds Street and South Lang Avenue, as well as at Reynolds Street and South Murtland Street.In 2020, the City of Pittsburgh began installing Neighborways—the deployment of traffic calming measures on low-volume and low-speed residential streets—to encourage safer, more comfortable walking and biking routes. With the Neighborway program came the city’s first neighborhood traffic circles. These circles, smaller versions of the much larger traffic roundabouts, are intended to function with yield signs. However, at the time of installation, DOMI kept the existing stop signs in place to allow for an acclimation period to this new-to-Pittsburgh type of intersection design.  The Neighborway program has been a resounding success. Traffic data shows a reduction in speed by an average of four miles per hour across the city’s Neighborway network, reducing corridor speeds by 9-21%. Importantly, speed is directly correlated with severity of injury and death in crashes, therefore this reduction in speed is a massive win for Pittsburgh’s residents.In accordance with the intended function, DOMI removed the stop signs and replaced them with common practice yield signs at circles along the Neighborways in July 2022. However, resident feedback showed concern regarding this change. Subsequently, in Fall 2022, DOMI performed data collection and field evaluations—including visits in both morning and evening peaks to observe traffic patterns. Results found that traffic volumes were higher on Reynolds Street specifically than other corridors with similar neighborhood traffic circles.  After careful consideration of the data and field observations, DOMI has decided to re-install the all-way stop condition along the Reynolds Neighborway to improve pedestrian comfort. Neighborway traffic circles on other streets, where data shows vehicular volumes are lower, will retain their yield signs.The city thanks residents for their patience while DOMI took the time to perform a thorough evaluation of the current conditions along local neighborways. This time allowed the department to undertake a thoughtful and equitable approach to ensure a safety-first outcome.### | 2/12/2022 11:28:17 |
| Neighborhood Traffic Calming Construction Coming to Glen Hazel and Hazelwood | Neighborhood Traffic Calming Construction Coming to Glen Hazel and HazelwoodPITTSBURGH— The City of Pittsburgh Department of Mobility and Infrastructure (DOMI) is pleased to announce the first traffic calming projects of 2023 on Johnston Avenue between Second Avenue and Rivermont Drive, as well as Mansion Street between Glenwood Avenue and Johnston Avenue in the Glen Hazel and Hazelwood neighborhoods.Data collected in 2022 indicated that more than 75% of vehicles traveling on these streets exceeded the posted speed limit of 25 mph, with 85th percentile speeds at or over 34 mph. The rate of speeding along with crash history in these areas indicated a strong need for traffic calming intervention.The project will include the construction of six speed tables and one raised crosswalk on Johnston Avenue and two speed humps on Mansion Street. Speed tables are midblock traffic calming devices similar to speed humps but with a modified flat top that raises the entire wheelbase of a vehicle to reduce its speed. Permanent signage and pavement markings will be installed to alert motorists of approaching speed tables and humps.Beginning on Johnston Avenue, construction work is tentatively expected to start on Wednesday, April 19, 2023. One lane of traffic on Johnston Avenue will be closed to traffic, with flaggers stationed at each end in order to allow alternating traffic.The duration of the project is expected to last five days, weather permitting. Hours of construction will be 7:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m.  Temporary no parking signage will be posted throughout the corridor where work is taking place.Mayor Ed Gainey and DOMI project staff, will be on-site and available from 11:30 a.m. to 12:00 p.m. on Friday, April 21, for media availability to discuss this important project.For any questions about this project or other traffic calming projects, individuals may contact DOMI by email at trafficcalming@pittsburghpa.gov, or by calling 311. Additional information about these projects and the traffic calming program can be found here. ### | 18/4/2023 16:34:08 |
| City of Pittsburgh Announces Start of the 2023 Milling and Paving Season | City of Pittsburgh Announces Start of the 2023 Milling and Paving SeasonPITTSBURGH — This week the City of Pittsburgh Department of Mobility and Infrastructure (DOMI) kicked off the 2023 milling and paving season.The City is investing over $18 million new capital dollars in the street resurfacing program, which supports asphalt street resurfacing and ADA curb ramp upgrades on paved streets throughout Pittsburgh.Nearly 32 miles of streets will be resurfaced this year. Additional mileage will be gained through cooperative agreements with local public utilities. Mechanical patching and crack sealing will improve many more miles by addressing particular trouble spots on otherwise acceptable street corridors, stretching the city’s tax dollars even further. DOMI is responsible for over 1,000 miles of roadway and works with community groups, council members, and 311 to identify potential issues in the right-of-way regarding street surface conditions. DOMI's staff and engineers create a yearly list based off of the following criteria: - Street Overall Condition Index (OCI) - Every street in Pittsburgh has an OCI score based upon the physical condition. Once the condition of the street deteriorates past a certain threshold it is given additional priority on the paving list. DOMI takes an additional step by field-verifying the condition of streets to make sure that the highest need streets are prioritized. - Street Use - Streets are broken into three categories: Primary, Secondary, and Tertiary. Primary roads receive the most use, which results in their OCI score dropping more quickly than Secondary or Tertiary. - Equity - Historically, some districts in the city have had a higher average condition score than other districts. DOMI takes this into consideration when allocating the paving budget, to make sure that communities that were historically underserved receive greater resources to raise the condition of their roads. Once a street has been resurfaced, DOMI works with either city crews or a contractor to restore, and in some cases improve, the pavement markings that are in place. In addition, new ADA curb ramps along a section of street that is repaved are required to be brought up to current standards. This year DOMI expects to update approximately 1,200 curb ramps. If upgrades are needed, they are performed the year following street paving.  Non-asphalt—concrete, brick, and blockstone—streets are also included in the city’s paving program. In an effort to preserve these long-lasting materials, DOMI’s primary approach is to perform repairs to these streets. Council legislation is required in order convert a concrete, brick, or cobblestone street to asphalt.  Streets scheduled for upcoming milling and paving will be posted weekly on DOMI’s website.### | 20/4/2023 10:07:55 |
| City of Pittsburgh to Begin Work on Two Bridge Construction Projects Next Week | City of Pittsburgh to Begin Work on Two Bridge Construction Projects Next WeekCity’s Swindell Bridge and 30th Street Bridge will undergo construction activities beginning April 24PITTSBURGH — The City of Pittsburgh is announcing Department of Mobility and Infrastructure (DOMI)-led work on two upcoming bridge construction projects beginning next week, April 24.The Swindell Bridge, connecting Perry South and Northview Heights over I-279, will receive $540,000 to restore deteriorated steel beams at the west end of the bridge where a lane restriction and two-way stop signs are currently in place.The bridge will close for one week, April 24-28, while a contractor installs temporary work platforms underneath the structure. The contractor will then prep the space and confirm dimensions for the steel beam fabrication. The bridge will reopen for approximately two months during the offsite manufacture, but will close again for 28 days—tentatively scheduled for late June—to allow for the installation of the beams.The work will advance pedestrian safety while enhancing accessibility for all other road users by lifting the lane restriction and removing the stop signs. A full rehabilitation project of the Swindell Bridge—including additional steel and concrete repairs, a new deck, and full painting—is forthcoming with preliminary engineering beginning this year. The full scope of work, timeline, and budget will be determined through the design process.The 30th Street Bridge Preservation Project is a rehabilitation of the bridge that serves as the primary means of access to Washington's Landing. The $1.84M construction project will replace the expansion joints, install a new Latex Modified Concrete (LMC) overlay on the deck, repair sidewalks and railings, and upgrade the lighting.During the first phase of the project—anticipated to run from April 24 to July 5—the sidewalk on the 30th Street Bridge will be closed and all pedestrians and bicyclists will be detoured across the Herr's Island railroad trestle trail bridge at the southwest end of Washington's Landing.For the duration of the project, there will be no vehicle access between River Avenue/30th Street and the intersection with SR 28, 31st Street Bridge, or Rialto Street. All vehicles will be detoured along River Avenue to General Robinson Street to SR 28. Additionally, a temporary traffic signal will be in operation at the River Avenue/30th Street intersection while traffic is reduced to a single reversible lane. Construction will wrap up in early October before the Head of the Ohio Regatta. More information on the 30th Street Bridge Project can be found here. ### | 21/4/2023 14:31:52 |
| Department of Mobility and Infrastructure Announces Early Reopening of the Swindell Bridge | Department of Mobility and Infrastructure Announces Early Reopening of the Swindell BridgePITTSBURGH — The City of Pittsburgh Department of Mobility and Infrastructure (DOMI)-led work on the Swindell Bridge has been completed ahead of schedule. The bridge was expected to be closed Monday-Friday, April 24-28, but has since reopened.The city’s contractor finished the first stage of work to restore deteriorated steel beams at the west end of the bridge where a lane restriction and two-way stop signs are currently in place. Those beams are now being manufactured off-site. The bridge will remain open for the next several months, until after materials are fabricated.A second closure—to allow for the installation of the beams—is tentatively scheduled for late June. Additional information on that closure is forthcoming.### | 27/4/2023 08:22:05 |
| Traffic Calming Construction Coming to Termon Avenue in Brighton Heights Neighborhood | Traffic Calming Construction Coming to Termon Avenue in Brighton Heights NeighborhoodPITTSBURGH — The City of Pittsburgh Department of Mobility and Infrastructure (DOMI) is pleased to announce traffic calming measures on Termon Avenue between California Avenue and Brighton Road in the Brighton Heights neighborhood.Data collected in 2021 indicated that more than 95% of vehicles traveling on the street exceeded the posted speed limit of 25 mph, with 85th percentile speeds at or over 37 mph. The rate of speeding along with crash history on the corridor indicated a strong need for traffic calming intervention.The project will include the construction of multiple traffic calming elements including one speed table, a series of chicanes, and one traffic circle at the intersection of Termon Avenue and McClure Avenue. Permanent signage and pavement markings will be installed to alert motorists of approaching traffic calming elements.Speed tables are mid-block traffic calming devices similar to speed humps but with a modified flat top that raises the entire wheelbase of a vehicle to reduce its speed. A chicane is a series of alternating mid-block curb extensions or islands that narrow the roadway and requires vehicles to follow a curving, S-shaped path—to discourage speeding. Construction work is tentatively expected to begin on Monday, May 1. During the construction of the speed table, one lane of traffic on Termon Avenue will be closed with flaggers stationed at each end in order to allow alternating traffic. During the traffic circle construction, there will be intermittent closures of the Termon and McClure intersection. Through traffic should seek an alternative route, however local residents will be allowed passage. Small travel delays are likely and should be anticipated.The duration of the project is expected to last five days, weather permitting. Hours of construction will be 7:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. Temporary no parking signage will be posted throughout the corridor where work is taking place.For any questions about this project or other traffic calming projects, individuals may contact DOMI by email at trafficcalming@pittsburghpa.gov and additional information about this project and/or the city’s traffic calming program can be found at https://engage.pittsburghpa.gov/neighborhood-traffic-calming. ### | 28/4/2023 09:59:38 |
| Traffic Calming Construction Coming to Shady Avenue in Squirrel Hill South Neighborhood | Traffic Calming Construction Coming to Shady Avenue in Squirrel Hill South NeighborhoodPITTSBURGH — The City of Pittsburgh Department of Mobility and Infrastructure (DOMI) is pleased to announce a traffic calming project on Shady Avenue between Beacon Street and Phillips Avenue in the Squirrel Hill South neighborhood.  Data collected in 2021 indicated that more than 75% of vehicles traveling on the street exceeded the posted speed limit of 25 mph, with 85th percentile speeds at or over 33 mph. The rate of speeding along with crash history on the corridor indicated a strong need for traffic calming intervention.The project will include the construction of two speed tables on Shady Avenue. Speed tables are mid-block traffic calming devices similar to speed humps but with a modified flat top that raises the entire wheelbase of a vehicle to reduce its speed. Permanent signage and pavement markings will be installed to alert motorists of the approaching speed tables.Construction work is tentatively expected to start on Wednesday, May 24. While construction of the speed table is taking place, one lane of traffic on Shady Avenue will be closed with flaggers stationed at each end in order to allow alternating traffic.The duration of the project is expected to last two days, weather permitting. Hours of construction will be 7:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. Temporary no parking signage will be posted throughout the corridor where work is taking place.For any questions about this project or other traffic calming projects, individuals may contact DOMI by email at trafficcalming@pittsburghpa.gov and additional information about this project and/or the city’s traffic calming program can be found at https://engage.pittsburghpa.gov/neighborhood-traffic-calming.  ### | 19/5/2023 13:22:13 |
| City of Pittsburgh to Perform Upcoming Maintenance on Swinburne Bridge | City of Pittsburgh to Perform Upcoming Maintenance on Swinburne BridgePITTSBURGH — The City of Pittsburgh Department of Mobility and Infrastructure (DOMI) will begin maintenance repairs on the Swinburne Bridge starting Monday, May 22. Drivers should be prepared for short term delays over the following four weeks while the work is being conducted.While the city’s contractor, Michael Facchiano Contracting, is performing these maintenance activities, a portion of one traffic lane will be closed as workers switch from working above the bridge to below. Closures will take place during non-peak hours between 9:00 a.m. and 3:00 p.m. Flaggers will be stationed to direct alternating traffic.Repairs are expected to include replacing the deck joint seals and restoration of the southern concrete abutment. Temporary measures were undertaken on this abutment in late-October 2022; and this project will complete that work. Costs for both the joint seals and abutment are projected to be about $230,000.The bridge deck work is part of a larger open contract for the replacement of joint seals on fourteen bridges across the city. This work is ongoing with a local infrastructure investement of nearly $700,000.  The Swinburne bridge, which weaves beneath I-376 and over Saline Street, is a critical link between the Four Mile Run, South Oakland, Greenfield, Hazelwood, and Downtown neighborhoods. The current repairs are needed to maintain the condition of the bridge and keep it open to the public while a separate, full replacement bridge project is moving forward.More information on the replacement project can be viewed at https://engage.pittsburghpa.gov/swinburne-bridge.### | 19/5/2023 16:41:11 |
| City of Pittsburgh and Pennsylvania Department of Transportation announce the Upcoming Full Closure of the Fern Hollow Bridge | City of Pittsburgh and Pennsylvania Department of Transportation announce the Upcoming Full Closure of the Fern Hollow BridgePITTSBURGH — The City of Pittsburgh Department of Mobility and Infrastructure (DOMI) and the Pennsylvania Department of Transportation (PennDOT) will close Forbes Avenue from South Dallas Avenue to South Braddock Avenue beginning Monday, June 12, for construction activities associated with the new Fern Hollow Bridge.The bridge has been open to two lanes of traffic since December. The upcoming four-week closure, June 12-July 7, will allow PennDOT’s contractor, Swank Construction Company, the time needed to complete all remaining bridge work. This includes final milling, paving, and pavement markings, as well as artistic enhancements to the bridge sidewalk and barrier and the installation of a polyester polymer concrete overlay on the bridge deck. This treatment preserves the longevity of the deck surface to reduce future maintenance and extend the life of the bridge.During the bridge closure, the detour route will use South Dallas Avenue, Penn Avenue, and South Braddock Avenue.Once completed, the bridge will reopen to all four lanes of vehicular traffic. Additionally, Tranquil Trail, which runs under the bridge, will be reopened; the cycle track/protected bike lane on Forbes Avenue will be complete; and the north sidewalk will be opened. One remaining task, installation of the signalized mid-block pedestrian crossing to the west of the bridge, will be completed in the fall after traffic signal poles are fabricated.While the bridge work is occurring, DOMI will take advantage of the closure to finish planned traffic pattern and safety improvement work along the corridor. Several improvements have already been implemented, including:- South Dallas Avenue, between Forbes Avenue and Beechwood Boulevard, has become one-way for southbound traffic only.- The “Stop Except Right Turn” sign on southbound South Dallas Avenue has been removed and a dedicated left-turn lane added to reduce motorist confusion.- A stop sign on Beechwood Boulevard eastbound at South Dallas Avenue has been added to simplify intersection operations for southbound Dallas Avenue traffic.The remaining changes, to be completed during the closure, include:- The intersection of Beechwood Boulevard and Beacon Street will receive a stop sign on westbound Beechwood Boulevard to make the intersection an all way stop. This will reduce confusion and improve safety for pedestrian crossings.- Concrete jersey barriers will be installed along Forbes Avenue to protect the new two-way cycle track.- A reduced speed limit on Forbes Avenue from South Dallas Avenue to Braddock Avenue, consistent with other parts of the Forbes Avenue corridor.- A pedestrian walking space on north Beechwood Boulevard that connects to the end of the existing Beechwood Boulevard sidewalk.- A speed table on Beechwood Boulevard to further calm traffic in advance of an area heavy with bike and pedestrian usage.Additional information on the traffic project design and intersection improvements, can be viewed at: https://engage.pittsburghpa.gov/complete-streets/s-dallas-ave-forbes-ave-beechwood-blvd-safe-connections. ### | 8/6/2023 14:15:01 |
| City of Pittsburgh to Finish Work on Swindell Bridge Maintenance Project Beginning Next Week | City of Pittsburgh to Finish Work on Swindell Bridge Maintenance Project Beginning Next WeekCity’s Swindell Bridge will close July 10 to complete planned construction activitiesPITTSBURGH — The City of Pittsburgh Department of Mobility and Infrastructure (DOMI) is announcing the second of a two-part closure of the Swindell Bridge to complete construction work.The full closure will begin next week, July 10, and is expected to last through August 7.The Swindell Bridge, connecting Perry South and Northview Heights over I-279, will see nearly $540,000 used to restore deteriorated steel beams at the west end of the bridge where a lane restriction and two-way stop signs are currently in place.The bridge closed for nearly a week in late-April to allow contractors to install temporary work platforms underneath the structure. The contractors then prepped the space and confirmed dimensions for the steel beam fabrication. The bridge reopened for approximately two months during the offsite fabrication and is closing again to allow for the installation of the beams.The work will advance pedestrian safety while enhancing accessibility for all other road users by lifting the lane restriction and removing the stop signs. A full rehabilitation project of the Swindell Bridge—including additional steel and concrete repairs, a new deck, and full painting—is forthcoming with preliminary engineering beginning this year. The full scope of work, timeline, and budget will be determined through the design process.### | 7/7/2023 09:33:07 |
| City of Pittsburgh to Conclude the Pilot Phase of Move PGH Along with an Indefinite Pause in Scooter Operations | City of Pittsburgh to Conclude the Pilot Phase of Move PGH Along with an Indefinite Pause in Scooter OperationsPITTSBURGH — The City of Pittsburgh Department of Mobility and Infrastructure (DOMI) announces the two-year pilot phase of the Move PGH program is concluding on July 9 along with an indefinite pause in shared e-scooter operations.  Move PGH was launched in July 2021 as a two-year pilot in Pittsburgh. The program sought to bring together existing and new mobility operators to create a more affordable, accessible, and equitable mobility ecosystem. Shared e-scooters were deployed as part of this two-year pilot program—the first time this mode was authorized in the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.  The state continues to work through the complicated legislative process surrounding e-scooters, amid difficult budget negotiations. However, without any additional state authorization, e-scooters are no longer permitted to operate in Pittsburgh at the close of this pilot program. As a result, starting on Monday, July 10, Spin e-scooters will not be operable in the City of Pittsburgh and the fleet will be removed from the public right-of-way in the coming weeks. The City of Pittsburgh will continue to work with state legislators to reauthorize this critical mode of transportation. During the course of the pilot, over one million trips were taken on shared e-scooters. And demonstrated use showed that shared e-scooters served a wide variety of trip types and populations.  All other modes of transportation under the Move PGH umbrella, including POGOH bikeshare, Zipcar carshare, and Pittsburgh Regional Transit, will continue to operate without any interruptions. DOMI will release a full evaluation report on the Move PGH pilot program later this summer. ### | 7/7/2023 16:22:07 |
| City of Pittsburgh to Immediately Close One Lane of Boggston Avenue at West Warrington Avenue | City of Pittsburgh to Immediately Close One Lane of Boggston Avenue at West Warrington AvenuePITTSBURGH — The City of Pittsburgh Department of Mobility and Infrastructure (DOMI) is alerting the public to a partial road closure bordering the Mount Washington and Beltzhoover Neighborhoods. Boggston Avenue, from West Warrington Avenue to Taft Avenue, will close to southbound traffic (vehicles moving away from Warrington Avenue) pending stabilization of the compromised roadway. The northbound lane—heading towards Warrington Avenue—will remain open.  The detour for southbound Boggston Avenue traffic is East Warrington Avenue to Haberman Avenue, right onto Climax Street, to Taft Avenue.  There are no impacts to travel along West Warrington Avenue, and there are no parking restrictions being imposed. DOMI is actively investigating the roadway and adjacent retaining wall to determine the appropriate remediation. At this time, DOMI does not know how long the road will need to remain partially closed. The street will fully reopen when the area has been deemed safe and the condition has stabilized or been repaired.  The lane closure will go into effect Tuesday, July 11, by 12:00 p.m. DOMI is working with the Departments of Public Safety and Public Works to ensure there are no disruptions to emergency or routine environmental services for local residents.  ### | 10/7/2023 16:20:00 |
| Traffic Calming Construction Coming to Several Corridors in Homewood | Traffic Calming Construction Coming to Several Corridors in HomewoodPITTSBURGH — The City of Pittsburgh Department of Mobility and Infrastructure (DOMI) is pleased to announce traffic calming projects coming to Frankstown Avenue between N Dallas Avenue and N Murtland Street in Homewood West; and Oakwood Avenue between Batavia Street and Mulford Street in Homewood South.In 2021, DOMI led a planning process to identify traffic safety and mobility improvements needed for the Homewood neighborhoods. Frankstown and Oakwood Avenues were two of five corridors identified in the plan.Data collected in 2021 indicated that more than 50% of vehicles traveling on the street exceeded the posted speed limit of 25 mph, with 85th percentile speeds at or over 32 mph. The rate of speeding along with crash history on the corridor indicated a strong need for traffic calming intervention.The project will include the construction of two speed tables, one on each street. Speed tables are midblock traffic calming devices similar to speed humps but with a modified flat top that raises the entire wheelbase of a vehicle to reduce its speed.Permanent signage and pavement markings will be installed to alert motorists of approaching traffic calming elements.Construction work is tentatively expected to begin on Wednesday, July 19. During the construction of the speed table, one lane of traffic will be closed with flaggers stationed at each end in order to allow alternating traffic.The duration of the project is expected to last two days, weather permitting. Hours of construction will be 7:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. Temporary no parking signage will be posted throughout the corridor where work is taking place.For any questions about this project or other traffic calming projects, individuals may contact DOMI by email at trafficcalming@pittsburghpa.gov and additional information about this project and/or the city’s traffic calming program can be found at https://engage.pittsburghpa.gov/neighborhood-traffic-calming.  ### | 18/7/2023 12:42:02 |
| City of Pittsburgh Announces Coming Upgrades to the Penn Avenue Corridor Downtown | City of Pittsburgh Announces Coming Upgrades to the Penn Avenue Corridor DowntownPITTSBURGH — The City of Pittsburgh Department of Mobility and Infrastructure (DOMI) is set to begin work on updates to the Penn Avenue Corridor in Downtown from Point State Park to 11th Street. The $150K mobility enhancement project includes repaving the corridor from 9th Street to Stanwix Street, updating pavement markings, the installation of precast concrete curbs in the bike lane buffer, as well as metal bollards to reduce vehicles gaining access to the bike lane. Additionally, updates to the parking and loading lane on the northern curb will be made to improve loading, including the addition of two Smart Loading Zones. New signage will accompany all of these changes. This work is expected to enhance the Penn Avenue experience for all road users. This corridor includes one of the original bike lanes in the city. The upgrade takes short-term materials and provides elements that are not only more physically attractive, but also more robust and permanent. Most importantly, the improved bike lane protection will make for a safer and more comfortable connection on some of Pittsburgh’s oldest bike lanes. Meanwhile, loading changes will provide drivers, both of commercial deliveries and short-term pick-up/drop-off activities, better access to loading zones. In reallocating long-term parking and vehicle storage for more efficient loading areas, the city expects to see a decrease in illegally parked commercial vehicles loading out of the travel and bike lanes. This enhanced corridor will ultimately result in a safer experience for all of Pittsburgh’s road users. The paving and pavement markings work will begin on Monday, July 24. Installation of the other components will be on a rolling basis throughout the summer. The bulk of the work will be conducted overnight to limit traffic disruptions. Detours are not expected during construction.  Additional information on the project, including maps specifying upcoming changes, can be viewed at: https://engage.pittsburghpa.gov/complete-streets/downtown-penn-ave-upgrades. ### | 21/7/2023 16:11:00 |
| Traffic Calming Construction Coming to Pius Street in South Side Slopes | Traffic Calming Construction Coming to Pius Street in South Side SlopesPITTSBURGH — The City of Pittsburgh Department of Mobility and Infrastructure (DOMI) is pleased to announce upcoming traffic calming construction on Pius Street between S 18th Street and Brosville Street in the South Side Slopes neighborhood.Data collected in 2021 indicated that more than 50% of vehicles traveling on the street exceeded the posted speed limit of 25 mph, with 85th percentile speeds of 31 mph. The rate of speeding along with crash history on the corridor indicated a strong need for traffic calming intervention.The project will include the construction of four speed humps and improved pedestrian crossings with high-visibility piano key crosswalks. Speed humps are midblock traffic calming devices that raise the entire wheelbase of a vehicle to reduce its speed.Permanent signage and pavement markings will be installed to alert motorists of approaching traffic calming elements.Construction work is tentatively expected to start on Wednesday, August 9, 2023. During the construction of the speed humps there will be intermittent closures of Pius Street. Through traffic should seek an alternative route however local residents will be allowed access.The duration of the project is expected to last two days, weather permitting. Hours of construction will be 7:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. Temporary no parking signage will be posted throughout the corridor where work is taking place.For any questions about this project or other traffic calming projects, individuals may contact DOMI by email at trafficcalming@pittsburghpa.gov and additional information about this project and/or the city’s traffic calming program can be found at https://engage.pittsburghpa.gov/neighborhood-traffic-calming.  ### | 7/8/2023 15:12:22 |
| DOMI Announces Reopening of 30th Street Bridge and River Avenue Viaduct | DOMI Announces Reopening of 30th Street Bridge and River Avenue ViaductPITTSBURGH — Starting today, motorists will encounter a new traffic pattern to Washington’s Landing with the nearly completed 30th Street Bridge Preservation Project.This $1.84-million-dollar project replaced the expansion joints, installed a new Latex Modified Concrete (LMC) overlay on the deck, repaired sidewalks and railings, and is upgrading the lighting in the area. This investment protects the structural components of the bridge from the harmful effects of the elements, ensuring safe access to Washington’s Landing.Traffic patterns during the project restricted access to a single reversible lane to and from the island while closing access from SR 28, 31st Street Bridge, and Rialto Street. Now, access to those roadways has returned to normal operation and pedestrians have access to the sidewalks.Over the next couple of weeks, some final touches to the bridge work will need to be completed and will require flaggers to direct traffic, but any delays should be minimal. | 17/8/2023 16:58:58 |
| City of Pittsburgh to Close Bridge on North Ave. at Brighton Rd. | City of Pittsburgh to Close Bridge on North Ave. at Brighton Rd.Closure and Detour Route to be implemented August 30, 2023PITTSBURGH — Starting August 30, the North Avenue Bridge at Brighton Road over the Norfolk Southern Railroad will be closed to all vehicles. Drivers should prepare to utilize the posted detour route and should expect minor delays until the bridge is replaced. Norfolk Southern Railroad is finalizing designs for a replacement bridge and construction is expected to begin in 2025.This closure is the result of an updated structural analysis for the bridge at the corner of Allegheny Commons Park in Pittsburgh’s Northside. This closure does not impact the Brighton Road portion of the bridge which is to remain posted at 10 tons, or a Combination 19 tons.The posted detour route will preserve existing through traffic on Brighton Road and the eastern leg of North Avenue, and direct drivers on the western leg to use Pennsylvania and Western Avenues.Please see below for a diagram of the closure: | 28/8/2023 16:20:11 |
| City of Pittsburgh To Begin Construction of the Trail Connecting Three Rivers Heritage Trail and Riverview Park via Mairdale Neighborway | City of Pittsburgh To Begin Construction of the Trail Connecting Three Rivers Heritage Trail and Riverview Park via Mairdale NeighborwayPITTSBURGH – Starting today (Monday, September 11), construction crews will begin the first phase of the project connecting the Three Rivers Heritage Trail to Riverview Park via the Mairdale Neighborway in the Marshall-Shadeland and Brighton Heights neighborhoods.Construction will take place along Woods Run and McClure Avenues in these neighborhoods over the next five days from 7 AM to 5 PM. Motorists can expect one-lane traffic monitored by flaggers on Woods Run Avenue, and McClure Avenue will be closed to all motorists. Temporary no-parking signage will also be posted throughout the corridor where this work is taking place.This project will install speed tables, improved pedestrian crossings, shared-lane pavement markings, wayfinding signage, and other safety improvements. It will also extend the one-way climbing bike lane that starts at the intersection of Mairdale Avenue and Oakdale Street.More information on this project and other projects in the Complete Streets program can be found online at https://engage.pittsburghpa.gov/complete-streets/trail-mairdale-neighborway. | 11/9/2023 13:39:11 |
| North Side Roadway Gets Needed Reconstruction | NORTH SIDE ROADWAY GETS NEEDED RECONSTRUCTIONPhase One of Chestnut Street Renovation to Begin September 25PITTSBURGH – Heads-up for motorists who use Chestnut Street on the North Side. Starting Monday, September 25th, reconstruction of the roadway, sidewalk, and curb alongside a portion of Chestnut Street between Spring Garden Ave and Phineas Street. It also includes updating for ADA ramps and crosswalks.  This necessary project is broken down into two phases with September’s reconstruction work being the first part and is expected to be completed on January 12, 2024. While the second phase is expected to take place in 2024 and concentrate on Tripoli/Zona Street to Phineas Street.   The roadway where construction will take place will be closed off to traffic with detour signs posted. Construction will not restrict residents who live in the neighborhood to be able to access their homes.   For more information or to see the construction layout, please take a look at https://engage.pittsburghpa.gov/chestnut-street-rehabilitation | 15/9/2023 15:39:42 |
| CLOSING OF PJ MCARDLE ROADWAY | Closing Of PJ McArdle RoadwayPittsburgh - The City of Pittsburgh Department of Public Works (DPW) is advising motorists of a major roadway closure this weekend.P.J. McArdle Roadway will be closed for several hours Saturday and Sunday, September 23rd and 24th from 7AM to 4PM on both days. This will affect traffic in both directions and for safety purposes, there will also be no access for pedestrians or bicyclists.Crews will be conducting general roadway cleaning, litter removal, and tree removal in the area.Traffic detour signs will be posted. | 20/9/2023 13:26:56 |
| Great Race Road Closures | R oad Closures Announced for 2023 Richard S. Caliguiri City of Pittsburgh Great Race More than 10,000 runners of all ages are expected for the “one great weekend” of events September 23-24
PITTSBURGH (September 21, 2023) — P3R announced street closures related to the 2023 Richard S. Caliguiri City of Pittsburgh Great Race presented by Highmark Blue Cross and Blue Shield, scheduled for Sept. 23-24. One of Pittsburgh’s longest-running races, this year’s weekend of events will feature 10,000 participants completing a variety of distances, including the Diaper Dash, Tot Trot, One Mile Family Fun Run, 5K and 10K.
Road closures for the Great Race will start Downtown near Stanwix Street at 5:30 a.m., and roads along the course will close at 6:30 a.m. and continue through 11:00 a.m. on Sunday, September 24. Streets in the Downtown, Uptown, Oakland and Squirrel Hill neighborhoods will be impacted. Below is a list of approximate street closure times:
|     |     |     |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Zone | Location | Closure Times |
| A | Beechwood Blvd to Forbes Avenue &amp; Morewood Avenue | 8:30 a.m. - 10:00 a.m. |
| B | Forbes &amp; Morewood Avenue to Fifth Avenue &amp; Bigelow Blvd. | 8:30 a.m. - 10:30 a.m. |
| C | Fifth Avenue at Bigelow Blvd to Fifth Avenue at Robinson Street Ramp to Blvd. | 6:30 a.m. - 10:45 a.m. |
| D | Fifth Avenue at Robinson Street Ramp to Blvd. to Commonwealth Place &amp; Liberty Avenue | 6:30 a/m/ - 11:00 a.m. |
Any individuals in these sections of the city who may need to leave during the race should consider parking their cars outside the area. Click here to view a Great Race course map.
MEDIA CREDENTIALS: Media accreditation is required for access to the Junior Great Race and Great Race start line and finish line areas. Media credentials are available by emailing your request to kelsey.emch@P3R.org by Friday, September 22.
CONTACT: Please direct all media inquiries to Kelsey Emch, P3R Public Relations Specialist, at 417-425-9400 or kelsey.emch@P3R.org.
# # # | 21/9/2023 13:59:23 |
| SEAGIRT STREET TRAFFIC CALMING CONSTRUCTION | SEAGIRT STREET TRAFFIC CALMING CONSTRUCTIONPITTSBURGH – The East Hills neighborhood in the City of Pittsburgh will soon be impacted by traffic calming construction on one of its roadways. The Department of Mobility and Infrastructure (DOMI) will be installing the mechanisms on Seagirt Street between Tokay Street and Mooseheart Street.The $31,789 project expected to start on Wednesday, September 27th will include the construction of speed humps. Since data collected in 2022 show more than 70-percent of vehicles traveling on the street exceed the post speed limit of 25 mph with most hitting speeds of 36 mph. The high rate of speeds along with crash history demonstrated the need for intervention.Motorists should be aware that during construction of the speed humps there will be intermittent closures of Seagirt Street. So, drivers are urged to follow an alternative route, however, local residents will be allowed through.Parking will be completely restricted during constriction and residents will see temporary no parking signage posted throughout the area where work will take place. Weather permitting, construction will take place from 7 a.m. to 5 p.m. for about two days.If you have questions about this project or other traffic calming projects, you may contact us via email at trafficcalming@pittsburghpa.gov, or by calling 3-1-1. You can learn more about our traffic calming program at https://engage.pittsburghpa.gov/neighborhood-traffic-calming .### | 22/9/2023 13:20:35 |
| FORBES AVENUE OUTBOUND CLOSURE | Forbes Avenue Outbound ClosurePITTSBURGH –  A heads-up for motorists traveling through neighborhoods near Frick Park this weekend.Crews from the Department of Public Works and Department of Mobility and Infrastructure will be conducting mandatory work on Forbes Avenue near the Fern Hollow Bridge.Some of that work consisting of cleaning and removal of debris on Sunday, October 8th makes it necessary for the closure of both outbound lanes of Forbes Avenue at South Dallas starting at 7a.m.The work is expected to last between an hour to three hours. Motorists should avoid this location and find alternative route until later in the day. | 6/10/2023 16:04:04 |
| Dunster Street Traffic Calming Construction | Dunster Street Traffic Calming ConstructionPittsburgh- On Monday, October 9th, 2023 crews will be out performing traffic calming construction in the Brookline neighborhood.Per the Department of Mobility and Infrastructure (DOMI), the work will take place on Dunster Street between Hartranft Street and Abstract Avenue for at least two days.The traffic calming project will include the construction of speed humps. Permanent signage and pavement markings will be installed to alert motorists of approaching calming elements. Speed humps are midblock traffic calming devices that raise the entire wheelbase of a vehicle to reduce its speed.This work is needed since data collected in 2021 show that more than 60-percent of motorists travel over the posted speed limit of 25 mph with a majority of drivers traveling at 33 mph.While construction work is taking place, drivers should be aware of intermittent closures of Dunster Street. Residents will be allowed through as time permits but through traffic should seek an alternative route.Weather permitting, construction will take place between 7 a.m.to 5 p.m. Drivers should note that parking in the area will be completely restricted. Temporary no parking signs will be posted throughout the corridor where the project is taking place.Questions on this project or other traffic calming projects can be emailed to trafficcalming@pittsburghpa.gov, or by calling 3-1-1. You can also learn more about our traffic calming program at https://engage.pittsburghpa.gov/neighborhood-traffic-calming. | 6/10/2023 10:25:51 |
| Stanton Avenue Complete Street Phase 2 – Traffic Calming Construction | Stanton Avenue Complete Street Phase 2 - Traffic Calming ConstructionPITTSBURGH – Residents in East Liberty and Highland Park neighborhoods will see the initial construction of the Stanton Avenue Complete Street Phase 2 project. This is the Department of Mobility and Infrastructure’s (DOMI) continuation of Stanton Avenue Complete Street Phase 1 to create a safe and comfortable connection for everyone who uses Stanton Avenue from Chislett Street to Meadow Street/Heberton Street.Construction work is expected to begin on Tuesday, October 10, 2023. During the construction of the speed tables, one lane of Stanton Avenue will be closed to traffic with flaggers allowing alternating traffic to flow.This phase of construction will include installing two speed tables between North Highland Avenue and Meadow Street in East Liberty and Highland Park. Speed data shows more than 30-percent of vehicles traveling on the street exceeded the posted speed limit of 25mph with about 85-percent hitting speeds of 32mph. Both the rate of speeding along with crash history demonstrate a need for a traffic calming intervention.Permanent signage and pavement markings will be installed to alert drivers of the approaching traffic calming elements. Speed tables are midblock traffic calming devices that raise the entire wheelbase of a vehicle to reduce its speed.Weather permitting, the work is expected to last no more than two days. Construction will take place from 7a.m. to 5p.m. Motorists should note that parking will be completely restricted during construction.  Temporary no parking signage will be posted throughout the corridor where work is taking place.Additional improvements such as transit stop upgrades, safer connections for cyclists and pedestrian crossing are planned for spring 2024. A public meeting with more details will be announced soon.More information on this project and other projects in the Complete Streets program can be found online at https://engage.pittsburghpa.gov/complete-streets/stanton-ave-complete-st-phase-2### | 9/10/2023 12:21:39 |
| Traffic Calming and Pedestrian Safety Project | Traffic Calming and Pedestrian Safety ProjectPittsburgh – On Wednesday, November 15th residents who live in the Carrick neighborhood will see crews working to install a traffic calming and pedestrian safety project. The work is expected to begin at 9am and will change driving patterns in the area.The Department of Mobility and Infrastructure (DOMI) will be closing a slip-lane at the intersection of Madeline Street and Becks Run Road. Since, the slip-lane is a blind turn with motorists tending to accelerate before the turn to maintain speed up the slope of Madeline Street. This action places pedestrian who use the multiple pedestrian crossings that exist on the roadway, specifically, one located immediately after the turn onto the street in danger.The intersection has also been flagged by DOMI as having poor sightlines for traffic merging onto the Madeline Street slip lane from Becks Run Road.Instead of using the slip lane, vehicles will need to continue until they can make a 90-degree right hand turn onto Madeline Street which will reduce speeding and provide better sightlines for drivers.Now, pedestrians will have the ability to safely use the recently repaired side walk and the one added to the pedestrian island in the area. The closure of the slip lane is also expected to improve overall safety and speeds on Madeline Street.Motorists and residents should expect the roadway to be closed with temporary barriers for the first three months advising of the new traffic pattern. Until the roadway is closed with concrete or similar barriers. | 14/11/2023 19:30:24 |
| West Carson Street over Chartiers Bridge Load Reduction | WEST CARSON STREET OVER CHARTIERS BRIDGE LOAD REDUCTIONPITTSBURGH - An alert for motorists who drive over Chartiers Bridge to and from the City of Pittsburgh to McKees Rocks Borough. The Department of Mobility and Infrastructure (DOMI) have reduced the load posting for the bridge effective immediately.The load posting change goes from 35 tons to 30 tons for single-unit vehicles. Weight limit exception of 40 Tons for combination vehicles is still in effect.  The reduction in load posting is a result of a recent updated analysis considering various existing conditions of the bridge. The reduction in load posting will help prevent the bridge from becoming overstressed and extend the service-life of the bridge.Emergency vehicles will still be able to cross the bridge at the new load posting. A full rehabilitation project of the bridge is currently beginning design, with construction expected to start in 2027.### | 19/1/2024 09:25:01 |
| Updated Paving Dashboard Provides Important Information for Residents | Updated Paving Dashboard Provides Important Information for ResidentsPITTSBURGH – Exciting news from the City of Pittsburgh Department of Mobility and Infrastructure (DOMI) for residents.An updated Paving Dashboard is now available for viewing on the City’s website. This Dashboard is a valuable tool that allows anyone to see which streets have been paved in the past five years.“We’re consistently looking for ways to empower residents to know what’s taking place in their neighborhood and the City of Pittsburgh. I’m proud of the work of my team in DOMI to make it possible,” said Mayor Ed Gainey.The Paving Dashboard also provides in-sight on city-funded paving projects completed by DOMI as well as information about streets that were improved as part of utility work.“DOMI strives to provide transparency to the community on how tax dollars are spent. This dashboard will give residents an opportunity to see where and what has been done on the City’s roadways,” said Kimberly Lucas, Director of DOMIIn 2023, the City’s capital budget allocated $18,203,042 to the street resurfacing program. That allotment enabled DOMI to pave 47 miles (4.4-percent) of city-owned streets.DOMI has been able in the past five years to resurface about 20.4-percent of all city owned asphalt roads.Here’s the link: Paving5Yrs (arcgis.com)### | 30/1/2024 13:02:55 |
| Greenleaf Street Closure | Greenleaf Street ClosurePITTSBURGH – A land slide repair project on Mt. Washington will have one roadway closed until November 15th. Motorists should avoid Greenleaf Street from South Main Street to Horner Street since it is completely closed at this time.Residents should know that the closure will affect emergency crews and school bus routes. Detour signs have been posted while this project is taking place.### | 19/2/2024 10:44:22 |
| STRIP DISTRICT STREET CLOSURE IMPACTS MOTORISTS | STRIP DISTRICT STREET CLOSURE IMPACTS MOTORISTSSmallman Street Closed between 29th and 30thPITTSBURGH – A heads-up for anyone traveling in the Strip District on Smallman Street.  The roadway is closed in both directions between 29th and 30th street until February 2025.Smallman Street is closed due to two ongoing construction projects across the street from each other. At this time, both projects require sidewalk and lane closures for deliveries, material staging, and crane staging.While Smallman Street remains closed to through traffic, resident’s driveways on the street are still accessible. Additionally, businesses on the block can be entered through their normal entrance unless otherwise stated.“We’re actively taking steps to minimize the impact this closure has on city residents,” said Kim Lucas Department of Mobility and Infrastructure Director. “Although this closure may affect morning and afternoon rush hours, effective detours have been established.”Westbound (inbound) traffic is currently being detoured via 30th St. to Penn Ave to 29th St. Eastbound (outbound) traffic will detour via 29th St. to Liberty Ave to 30th St to Smallman St.### | 22/2/2024 13:02:41 |
| PITTSBURGH AIMS FOR ZERO FATAL CRASHES | PITTSBURGH AIMS FOR ZERO FATAL CRASHESUnveils Vision Zero PlanPITTSBURGH – Today, Mayor Ed Gainey spoke on the expansion of his vision for making Pittsburgh, the safest in America. He was joined by staff from the Department of Mobility and Infrastructure (DOMI), City Council and safety advocates to unveil the Vision Zero Plan.This plan aims to reduce fatal crashes and those that cause serious injuries to zero. The term crashes versus accidents will be utilized since crashes are preventable while accidents are not. DOMI will oversee the plan with a five-person Vision Zero Taskforce who will work towards preventing fatal crashes and those incidents causing serious injuries.“Safety is a shared responsibility,” said Mayor Gainey. “It is the responsibility of all road users to keep ourselves and more importantly each other safe. I want all residents whether they walk, bike or drive on City streets to have that sense of safety.”DOMI will be working with PennDot to implement low-cost high yield traffic safety measures focused on neighborhood streets. Many of which are located in historically under invested neighborhoods.Thanks to the hard work of DOMI leadership and staff who worked with BikePgh, the South Western Pennsylvania Commission, Pittsburgh City Council and PennDot. The plan using data to identify where fatal crashes happen most often will work to make fatal crashes entirely preventable.Visit the Complete Street Advisory Group Engage Page to learn more about the initiative.### | 4/3/2024 17:58:40 |
| GARFIELD ROAD CONSTRUCTION IMPACTS MOTORISTS | GARFIELD ROAD CONSTRUCTION IMPACTS MOTORISTSPenn Ave Closed Intermittently to Westbound TrafficPITTSBURGH – A heads-up for residents and anyone traveling in Garfield on Penn Ave; the roadway is closed intermittently in the Westbound (inbound) direction which started on Monday, March 11th.  Individual blocks of Penn Ave will close due to ongoing main-line maintenance projects overseen by People’s Gas. At this time, the project requires westbound lane closure of a singular block, during working hours (8am-4pm). While Eastbound (outbound) traffic lane will remain open during work hours. Work is starting within the 5400 block of Penn Ave. from North Aiken Ave. to Roup Ave. and is expected to end in late April. Crews will then be on the 5300 block of Penn Avenue spanning from North Atlantic Ave. to North Aiken Ave. until early June. Work will then take place in the 5200 block of Penn Ave. between North Pacific Ave. and North Atlantic Ave. until mid-July.  Crews will complete the work in the 5100 block of Penn Ave. between North Evaline Street to North Pacific Ave. with work anticipated to being completed in late August. Work on each block is expected to have the roadway closed for roughly six weeks.  “These closures will unfortunately span from spring through summer,” said Kim Lucas, Department of Mobility and Infrastructure Director. “It’s unavoidable the impact the work may have on traffic, but this work is necessary and timely.” While westbound lanes of Penn Ave. in Garfield are closed during working hours. Two-way traffic flow will take place after 4pm. Effective detours have been established and signage posted to accommodate vehicular traffic around the work site. The first detour takes place on the 5400 block of Penn Ave. via Broad St. Eastbound travel lanes remain open and unimpeded. Westbound buses, trucks, and emergency vehicles will be allowed to travel through on Penn Ave. ### | 13/3/2024 13:43:29 |
| BRIGHTON ROAD BRIDGE SIDEWALK CLOSURE | BRIGHTON ROAD BRIDGE SIDEWALK CLOSURESidewalk Closed Until Bridge Project CompletedPITTSBURGH – Due to safety concerns for pedestrians, the sidewalk spanning the length of the Brighton Road bridge at the intersection of West North Ave will close on Monday, March 18th.  This closure will be in effect until the completion of the North &amp; Brighton Bridge Replacement project. A full replacement of the Brighton Road Bridge sidewalk is included as an essential part of the Norfolk Southern managed project.  Proper signage alerting of the closure and suggested pedestrian detouring is posted as per the diagram below. ### | 14/3/2024 12:10:34 |
| WORK RESUMES ON PENN CIRCLE CONVERSION | WORK RESUMES ON PENN CIRCLE CONVERSIONPenn Circle Conversion Project Construction RestartingPITTSBURGH - Construction work for the Urban Redevelopment Authority’s Penn Circle Two-Way Conversion project restarted today. This comes after a brief hiatus in construction to accommodate for winter weather beginning in November 2023.  During the final construction phase, there will be lane closures on the following segments of the project area: - S Euclid Ave between Penn Avenue and Centre Avenue   - N Euclid Ave between Station Street and Penn Avenue   - Station St. between Highland Avenue and Rural Street   A traffic management plan is being deployed as part of the project in order to keep traffic circulating smoothly and safely through the area. Access to Friendship Ave from the Euclid Ave and Baum Blvd. intersection is being maintained as well as access to driveways and businesses with temporary closures during times of adjacent construction. “We’re thrilled that the sun is out, and we can get back to work,” said Director of the Department om Mobility and Infrastructure Kim Lucas. “When we broke ground on this project back in 2023, we were so happy to help reconnect East Liberty. We want to thank the Urban Redevelopment Authority for partnering with us for this project.” During construction, motorists should be aware that parking will be temporarily limited. Crews are expected to work from 7:00a.m. to 5:00p.m. Project construction will continue tentatively wrap up in July 2024.  Follow along with current progress on the Penn Circle Conversion Project Engage Page.  ### | 18/3/2024 15:56:46 |
| DAVIS AVENUE BRIDGE BEING REBUILT AFTER 15 YEARS | DAVIS AVENUE BRIDGE BEING REBUILT AFTER 15 YEARSReconnecting Brighton Heights with Riverview ParkPITTSBURGH – Today, the City of Pittsburgh’s Department of Mobility and Infrastructure (DOMI) broke ground on the new Davis Avenue Pedestrian Bridge in the Brighton Heights neighborhood. This groundbreaking comes roughly 15 years after the previous bridge, constructed in 1898, was dismantled.  The new bridge is part of the city’s larger mission to provide residents with connections to neighborhood parks like Riverview Park. Once completed in Fall 2024, this bridge will reduce walking time to the park from 35 minutes to five. Additionally, the new bridge will create safe pathway for cyclists and pedestrians to enter the park.  “This is a huge deal for Brighton Heights residents,” said Mayor Ed Gainey. “As a city we promised that we would rebuild the Davis Ave. Bridge. Today, we’re keeping that promise.”  DOMI has partnered with Gregori Construction Inc. and Michael Baker International for the construction of the new bridge along with design partners HNTB. Trusses for the new bridge will be fabricated off-site. They will be delivered to the worksite later this summer and erected on top of the original abutments with two newly constructed piers.  “At this time, a budget of 6.2 million has been established for this project, which is fully funded,” said DOMI Director Kim Lucas.  “We are excited to be breaking ground on a new Davis Avenue bridge 15 years after the previous bridge’s decommissioning,” said Senior Project Manager Zack Workman. “This project has been possible thanks to community-driven efforts to reconnect Brighton Heights to Riverview Park and is a testament to the city weathering decades of financial hardship with a brighter future ahead.” The design of the new bridge also includes a public art project that commemorates and celebrates the reconnecting between Riverview Park and the Northside Neighborhoods. $54,444 has been budgeted for this public art installation, which has been made possible by the City of Pittsburgh’s Percent for Art program.  Follow along for updates and provide feedback on the Davis Ave. Bridge Reconstruction Project Engage Page. ### | 11/4/2024 16:07:05 |
| CITY OF PITTSBURGH POSTING 2024 WEEKLY PAVING LIST | CITY OF PITTSBURGH POSTING 2024 WEEKLY PAVING LISTPITTSBURGH – Today, the City of Pittsburgh Department of Mobility and Infrastructure (DOMI) officially kicked-off the 2024 milling and paving season.  As with previous years, milling and paving related updates will be posted to the weekly paving list and historical milling/paving data is available on the DOMI milling/paving dashboard.  The paving list will be updated weekly on the DOMI website and is subject to change due to external conditions such as weather.  ### | 15/4/2024 08:27:10 |
| DUQUESNE HEIGHTS RECEIVE TRAFFIC CALMING | DUQUESNE HEIGHTS RECEIVE TRAFFIC CALMINGShaler Street Receives Updates from Grandview Avenue to Well StreetPITTSBURGH - Construction work for the Shaler Street traffic calming project started last week amidst a show of support from Duquesne Heights residents.  The project includes the construction of traffic calming elements including speed tables and improved pedestrian crossings with hi-visibility piano key crosswalks. Permanent signage and pavement markings have been installed to alert motorists of approaching traffic calming elements. “As part of our objective to reach zero traffic deaths this project will ensure the safety of all that call Duquesne Heights home,” said Mayor Gainey. “We’re working on making safe neighborhoods and traffic calming is a piece of the puzzle.” Data collected in 2021 indicated that more than 70% of vehicles traveling on the street exceeded the posted speed limit of 25 mph, with about 85% traveling at speeds of 32 mph. The rate of speeding along with the crash history on the corridor indicated a strong need for a traffic calming intervention. Construction work started Wednesday, April 17, 2024 and was completed on Friday, April 19th.  Follow along with current progress on the Shaler Street Project Page. For questions about this project or traffic calming in the city of Pittsburgh please email trafficcalming@pittsburghpa.gov. ### | 23/4/2024 11:34:46 |
| MT. WASHINGTON ROAD CLOSURE TO ALLOW LAND SLIDE REPAIR WORK | MT. WASHINGTON ROAD CLOSURE TO ALLOW LAND SLIDE REPAIR WORKPITTSBURGH – Starting on Monday, April 29th,2024 road closures will take place to allow work regarding the Climate Resilience Mitigation Project locally called the Mt. Washington Landslide Remediation Project to take place.In the Mt. Washington neighborhood vehicular and pedestrian traffic will be closed off along William Street between Arlington Avenue and Cola Street beginning at 7am. Residents living on Cola Street beginning on May 6th, 2024 will see construction of a temporary road built between Lava Street and Cola Street to provide access.The closures will allow Allison Park Contractors contracted by the City to begin work on installing new roadway drainage, repair the roadway, and install new retaining walls, along with other miscellaneous items of work. This needed project is scheduled to be completed by December 2024.Recently, Mt. Washington has seen challenges on several locations where hillside instability has spilled debris onto roadways and walking paths. The three locations identified as areas that would best benefit from the remediation project are Greenleaf Street, Reese Street and William Street.This project focuses on stabilizing parts of the Northern and Western slopes of Mt. Washington with retaining walls and geotechnical installations to protect homes and roadways. The City of Pittsburgh Department of Mobility and Infrastructure (DOMI) is leading the effort with the support of FEMA and PEMA to preemptively secure the hillsides of Mt. Washington to minimize the probability of landslides.### | 28/4/2024 21:27:09 |
| HOMEWOOD RECEIVES TRAFFIC CALMING PROJECTS | HOMEWOOD RECEIVES TRAFFIC CALMING PROJECTSResidents will see Changes on Two StreetsPITTSBURGH – This week, the Department of Mobility and Infrastructure (DOMI) will begin traffic calming construction on two (2) streets in Pittsburgh’s Homewood neighborhood: - Hamilton Avenue between North Braddock Avenue and Oakwood Street   - Kelly Street between Brushton Avenue and Oakwood Street   The traffic calming elements are two speed tables on Hamilton Ave., two speed humps on Kelly St., while permanent signage plus pavement markings will be installed to alert motorists of the approaching traffic calming elements.  “Our DOMI teams have been hard at work identifying the areas where we need traffic calming and our residents in Homewood are thrilled to see it,” said Mayor Ed Gainey. “Traffic calming measures like these are an important part in ensuring that our neighborhoods are safe and will help us move towards our vision of zero traffic fatalities in our city.” This project comes after data collected in 2020 indicated that more than 60% of vehicles traveling on these streets exceeded the posted speed limit of 25 mph, with 85% of drivers traveling at speeds of 33 mph. The rate of speeding along with crash history on the corridor indicated a strong need for a traffic calming intervention.  Construction work is tentatively expected to start in the morning on Wednesday, May 1. During the speed table construction one lane of traffic on Hamilton Avenue will be closed to traffic, with flaggers stationed at each end in order to allow alternating traffic. During the construction on Kelly Street, the road will be closed to motorists, but flaggers will be stationed at each end in order to allow local traffic access to and from their residences. The project is expected to last three 3 days, weather permitting. Construction will occur daily from 7:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m.  Temporary “No Parking” signage will be posted throughout the corridors where work is taking place. Follow along with current progress on the Neighborhood Traffic Calming Page. For questions about this project or traffic calming in the city of Pittsburgh please email trafficcalming@pittsburghpa.gov. ### | 30/4/2024 10:53:07 |
| MT. WASHINGTON RECEIVES 400FT OF NEW SIDEWALKS | MT. WASHINGTON RECEIVES 400FT OF NEW SIDEWALKSNew Sidewalks Installed on Merrimac Street and Grandview AvenuePITTSBURGH – Construction is wrapped up on approximately 400 feet of brand-new sidewalks in Mt. Washington along Grandview Avenue and Merrimac Street.  The project is part of the Department of Mobility and Infrastructure’s (DOMI) Critical Sidewalk Gaps Program. Which is design to address gaps in pedestrian routing by repairing deteriorated sidewalks or adding new ones. That will provide connection in areas with high pedestrian need to local amenities such as community centers, transit stations, schools, and grocery stores.  Sidewalks eligible for installation or replacement can be adjacent to either public or private property as long as they are in the public right of way, and they connect to public services. “Sidewalks are the backbone of our transportation system,” said Senior Project Manager Michael Panzitta. “And they don’t often get the attention needed to ensure that pedestrians can easily and safely use them. Under our Critical Sidewalk Gaps Program, DOMI is working to bridge these connections to ensure our neighborhoods are safe for pedestrians.” Sidewalks like those recently installed on Merrimac St. and Grandview Ave. that connect to necessary services and public facilities are available upon request from City of Pittsburgh residents in their area. To request a sidewalk, call 311, and or get in touch with your Councilperson.  Follow along with the current progress of the Critical Sidewalk Gaps Project on EngagePGH. To find out who your City Councilperson is check this online map. ### | 6/5/2024 15:26:42 |
| No results found. |
Back to top
Ready
jasujazumdinski