Skip to main content
opens in new tab or window
In This Section

City Planning
Mobility and Infrastructure
Permits, Licenses, and Inspections  - Applications &amp; Forms
OneStopPGH
Permits    - About PLI
Residential Permits
Commercial Permits
Permit Process
Work Not Requiring a Permit

Licenses
Bulletins
Community Resources
Code Enforcement
Condemned Buildings
PLI Fees
Building Codes
Appeals
PLI Contacts
Announcements
Registrations
Digital Equity In Pittsburgh
Small Business Resources
Public Works
Zoning
Geographic Information Systems, Mapping &amp; Open Data
Procurement
PGH Lab
Sustainability

Fire Alarm
A commercial fire alarm permit is required for the following work on a commercial building or structure.

Renovate and repair existing fire alarm systems, including suppression system supervisory and alarm systems.
Extend or modify an existing fire alarm system, including suppression system supervisory and alarm systems.
Installation of a new fire alarm system, including suppression system supervisory and alarm systems.

Please see Permit Home for the definition of commercial structures and work types. Please see Work Not Requiring A Permit for work that can be performed without a PLI permit. Please visit our Contacts page for the Construction Inspector's contact information.
New System Work Scopes
The new system work type applies to the installation of new systems. The applicant shall identify one or more of the following work scopes:

Automatic Smoke Detection System: installation of a fire alarm system for which automatic detectors serve as system initiating devices.
Emergency Voice/Alarm Communication System: installation of an emergency voice/alarm communication system.
Manual Fire Alarm System: installation of a fire alarm system that includes manual initiating devices.
Manual Fire Alarm System with occupant notification only: installation of a fire alarm system for which activation of a suppression system initiates the system.
Suppression System Monitoring System: installation of a fire alarm system that is limited to monitoring of a suppression system.
Phased Work – Core &amp; Shell: installation of systems associated with a phased building permit with a core and shell work scope. Work associated with the fit-out is not permitted. Selected in addition to one or more other work scopes.
Phased Work – Fit-out: installation of systems associated with a phased building permit with fit-out work scope. Work associated with the core and shell is not permitted. Selected in addition to one or more other work scopes.

jasujazumdinski
Addition / Alteration Work Scopes
The addition/alteration work type applies to the alteration of an existing system. The applicant shall identify one or more of the following work scopes:

Automatic Smoke Detection System: alteration of a fire alarm system for which automatic detectors serve as system initiating devices.
Emergency Voice/Alarm Communication System: alteration of an emergency voice/alarm communication system.
Manual Fire Alarm System: alteration of a fire alarm system that includes manual initiating devices.
Manual Fire Alarm System with occupant notification only: alteration of a fire alarm system for which activation of a suppression system initiates the system.
Suppression System Monitoring System: alteration of a fire alarm system that is limited to monitoring of a suppression system.
Circuit Wiring: alteration of fire alarm circuit wiring.
Fire Alarm Control and/or Annunciator Panel: installation of new or replacement fire alarm control and/or annunciator panels.
Initiating Devices: installation or modification of initiating devices.
Occupant Notification Devices: installation or modification of occupant notification devices.
Emergency Replacement of device/equipment: repair and/or replacement of elements condemned by PLI and/or damaged elements required to maintain safe occupancy of an occupied building. Replacement of a fire alarm control panel is permitted under this work scope.
Removal of System: removal of a system that is not replaced.

jasujazumdinski
Minor Alteration Work Types
The minor alteration work type applies to the modification of an existing system in an existing building with a valid certificate of occupancy. The applicant shall identify one or more of the following work scopes:

Relay for Hood Suppression System: installation or modification of a relay for a hood suppression system.
Relocation / Replacement of Devices In-Kind only: applies to the relocation or replacement in kind (same type and number) of devices (notification and/or initiating). Replacement and/or relocation of a fire alarm control panel is NOT permitted under this work scope.
Emergency Repairs: repairs to equipment condemned by PLI and/or damaged equipment. Replacement of a fire alarm control panel is NOT permitted under this work scope.

Permit Process
See these web pages for additional information regarding the permitting process:

Permit Process
Application Submission
All other work types other than Minor Alterations require submission of construction drawings to OneStopPGH.
Drawings shall be one of the following:
Prepared and sealed by a PA-licensed architect or engineer.
Prepared and sealed by a PA-licensed architect or engineer supplemented by shop drawings if accompanied by a statement from the architect or engineer that they have accepted the shop drawings as part of the construction drawings.
Prepared and signed by an individual with a Level III Nicet certification for fire alarm systems.

Application Review
Permit Issuance
Permit Inspections
Statement of Compliance(PDF, 38KB) – required to be submitted for a final inspection.
Record of Completion(PDF, 1MB) – required to be submitted for a final inspection.
Permit Completion

Please see Other Agency Coordination for processes related to other agencies that may relate to your permit scope. For commercial fire alarm permits:

Zoning Code Regulations
Development of a property in a regulated floodplain requires a PLI Floodplain permit.
PA Department of Health (DOH)
Required for a structure regulated by the PA Health Care Facilities Act.

last updated: 04/23/2025
Back to top
Ready
jasujazumdinski