opens in new tab or window
In This Section
Mayor
City Controller
City Council
Boards, Authorities, Commissions
Legal Services
Jobs
Finance & Budget  - Campaign Finances
Dog Licenses
Fee Schedule
Management & Budget
New Business Registration
Pilot Home Buying Program
Real Estate
Taxes
Contacts & Information
New Business Registration
The City of Pittsburgh offers the following options to register your business.
(It is advised to download the New Business Registration(PDF, 3MB) and complete it in Adobe Reader)
Online - Please click on the New Business Registration link below, download and save the form as a PDF. Right click and open the form using Adobe Reader. Please complete and sign the form and then email it to registration@pittsburghpa.gov. Please allow up to 5-10 business days for your business to be registered. Your business is not registered until you receive a verification letter from the Department of Finance.
Mailing - Click on the New Business Registration link below, download and save the form as a PDF. Right click and open the form using Adobe Reader. Complete, print and mail the form below to: Registration, City of Pittsburgh, 414 Grant Street RM 207, Pittsburgh, PA 15219-2476 Business Registration Form
Walk-in - You can also register your business by coming into the Department of Finance.
Please call 412-255-2525 to have the registration form mailed to you, or to have any questions you have answered.
New Business Registration(PDF, 3MB)
If your business is already registered with the City of Pittsburgh and you need to make updates to your business information? Complete the Change in Business Status Form(PDF, 1MB).
Every person having an office, factory, workshop, branch, warehouse, or other place of business, including banks, schools, hospitals, non-profit, and trade associations, located in the City or outside the City, who, during any tax year, performs work or renders services in whole or in part in the City, who has not previously registered, shall within fifteen (15) days, register with the Treasurer its name and address and shall provide such other information as the Treasurer may require.
- Chapter 258 of the City Code
last updated: 04/22/2025
Back to top
Ready
jasujazumdinski