opens in new tab or window
Three Rivers Heritage Trail
The Three Rivers Heritage Trail is Pittsburg's signature trail system. The 33 mile system is maintained by the Department of Public Works in cooperation with the Friends of the Riverfront.
The trail runs along the banks of our Three Rivers and is a popular walking, biking, running, and tourist destination. Collectively, the trail forms portions of the Great Allegheny Passage, a 150 mile passage that connects Pittsburgh to the nation's Capital - Washington, DC.
Along our riverfront, the Three Rivers Heritage Trail offers connections to many Pittsburgh neighborhoods, attractions, and destinations.
Allegheny & Mon Wharf Riverfront Park History(show below)
The scenic Monongahela Wharf and Allegheny Riverside Park make up what used to be stretches of deteriorating parking lots and industrial areas in historic downtown Pittsburgh that were rehabilitated in the early 2000s.
In partnership with Riverlife, the U.S. Department of Transportation, the Pennsylvania Department of Conservation and Natural Resources, PENNDOT, the Katherine Mabis McKenna Foundation, the Heinz Endowments, and the Richard King Mellon Foundation, the Monongahela Wharf was revitalized and unveiled as a part of the scenic Three Rivers Heritage trail in 2009.
It neighbors the vibrant commercial and cultural spaces in Station Square. It now features flood-resistant native plant species and infrastructure and water steps for river access.
Interactive Map(show below)
Explore our trails like never before, see our new interactive trail map:
Interactive Map
David L. Lawrence Convention Center Riverfront Plaza(show below)
The Convention Center's Riverfront Plaza forms an integral part of the trail system. Famously, Lewis and Clark started their historic expedition in 1803 from the northeast corner of the Convention Center.
The Riverfront Plaza features a prominent Water Feature of cascading fountains along a pedestrian path to 10th Street. For more information visit Convention Center Riverfront Plaza.
jasujazumdinski
Location
Three Rivers Heritage Trail, Pittsburgh, PA 15203  View Map
Skip to below map
40.4318905,-79.9853282
Three Rivers Heritage Trail ,
Pittsburgh, PA 15203
Three Rivers Heritage Trail ,
Pittsburgh, PA 15203
Three Rivers Heritage Trail
Skip to above map
Tagged as:
Riverfront Parks
Park Details
Amenities
Biking
Commerce
Events
Riverfront Access
Trails
Walking
Back to top
Ready
jasujazumdinski