Search this site...
Search
Close
Snow Angels
This program pairs older residents and residents with disabilities with nearby neighbors who volunteer to assist them with snow removal on their sidewalks and walkways.
Follow
Update September 2025
Online applications for the 2025-2026 Snow Angels Season will become available F all 2025.
Follow this page and receive updates as they become available by clicking the "follow" button above!
Recipient Sign-up
Volunteer Sign-up
Use the form below if you are interested in having your sidewalk, walkway, and/or driveway shoveled by a community Snow Angel.
We do our best to pair all applicants with a volunteer snow angel, but we cannot guarantee this outcome. Our team is always accepting new volunteers which means you may be paired with somebody later in the season.
Applications coming Fall 2025!
Use the form below if you are interested in volunteering to be a Snow Angel.
Applications coming Fall 2025!
What is the Snow Angels Program?
Helping our neighbors is SNOW much fun.
Snow-covered sidewalks can be hazardous for everyone. The City of Pittsburgh’s Snow Angels Program pairs older residents and people with disabilities with nearby neighbors to assist with snow removal on their sidewalks and walkways.
Along with fostering stronger community relationships and relieving some of the stress that comes from a heavy snowfall or freeze, Snow Angels make our sidewalks safer for those who are outside during winter weather like postal workers, firefighters, police officers, and other neighbors.
In 2023, we encouraged coaches, faith-based organizations, and community leaders to sign up as Snow Angels to support neighbors in need.
jasujazumdinski
Requirements for Snow Angel Recipients
If you’d like a neighbor to come help break the ice.
Requirements to request a volunteer Snow Angel:
Be at least 62 years old, or have a physical disability
Live within the City limits. Click here to find out if your address is in this boundary
Lack the resources (financial, family, and/or friends nearby) to assist with snow removal
Things to know before signing up:
Applicants are not guaranteed assistance. Service depends on if there’s a Snow Angel who has signed up to volunteer near you. Our staff works closely with the community to do the best volunteer recruitment and outreach we can, but we cannot guarantee you will be matched.
If you are matched with a volunteer, we will notify you by email or phone call. Registration is on a rolling basis, so a Snow Angel may be available later in the season. If this happens, we will contact you when we have a match.
You may not receive immediate help during a snowfall. Please give your volunteer a reasonable amount of time to assist you. We typically recommend allowing 24-hours after a snow event to allow your Snow Angel to arrive as your Snow Angel may have work, family, or personal matters that prevent them from immediately addressing your sidewalk or walkway.
You do not have to be home when a volunteer arrives to help.
jasujazumdinski
First name
Last name
Email address
Submit
Ignore this field. It is used to detect spammers. If you enter anything into this text box, your submission will be rejected.Ignore this field. It is used to detect spammers. If you enter anything into this text box, your submission will be rejected.Ignore this field. It is used to detect spammers. If you enter anything into this text box, your submission will be rejected.
Sign-up for our Newsletter
Click Here open in new window
Follow us on Social Media