opens in new tab or window
Become a City of Pittsburgh Police Officer
Open side Menu
Why Serve
Pittsburgh
About PBP
Mentors
Salary & Benefits
Hiring Process
Specialty Units
FAQs
In This Section
Why Serve
Pittsburgh
About PBP
Mentors
Salary & Benefits
Hiring Process
Specialty Units
FAQs
Hiring Process
Applying Process & Preparation Opportunities
The City of Pittsburgh is now accepting applications for the Police Officer position on a continuous basis. The position is currently posted on the employment website www.pghjobs.net.
Applying Process
Application \| Examination \| Eligibility:
Submit your high school or GED diploma, as well as your DD-214 Member 4 Forms and Act 120 grade sheet/certificate (if applicable).
Attend the Written Exam Prep Session.
Attend the Written Exam. **Applicants will be scheduled for a written examination in the month following the submission of application.(e.g., application is submitted in December, exam will be scheduled for January).
Depending on passing scores, receive a rank on the Eligibility List. **Candidates will be ranked on the eligibility list by month tested in written examination score order.
Following the application process, those who are placed on the Eligibility List can expect the following step by step process when their rank is reached on the eligibility list to be considered for a police academy class:
Class Processing from the Eligibility List:
Background processing packets are mailed to appropriate ranks. Candidates submit packets by deadline.
Candidates attend and pass the MPOETC Reading and Fitness Exam. Event Description \| Test Standards
Candidate background investigations are conducted. View Here
The Chief's Selection process is held. View Here
Public Hearings are scheduled and held for those decertified. View Here
Conditional Offers of Employment are extended for those selected. View Here
Candidates undergo a Written Psychological. View Here
Candidates undergo a Psychological Interview. View Here
Candidates undergo a pre-employment Medical. View Here
Final Offers of Employment are extended to those who successfully complete all required processing steps. View Here
jasujazumdinski
Application Instructions
Apply online at www.pghjobs.net
Qualifications
You must submit or show proof of all of the following at the time of filing your application (unless otherwise indicated below) or your application may be disqualified.
Completed online City of Pittsburgh Application Form and Supplemental questions for this position.
At least 20 years of age at the time of filing application.
A United States citizen.
Applicants must be or become residents of an area within a 25-mile air radius of the downtown City-County Building prior to employment and remain a resident within the 25-mile air radius throughout employment
A current, valid Class C Pennsylvania Motor Vehicle Operator's License or a current valid driver's license from another state or the U.S. Armed Forces.
Licenses must be presented at the time of filing application or prior to certification. PA driver's license must be obtained prior to appointment and maintained throughout employment.
The City of Pittsburgh, as a matter of policy, conducts a pre-employment and promotional background investigation on all applicants being considered for positions. Applicants may be disqualified from consideration based on the results of their background investigation (as it relates to the job for which the applicant is being considered).
A High School Diploma or GED.
jasujazumdinski
Decertifying Criteria
Decertification Criteria for Police Officer Recruit:
All police officer applicants with the City of Pittsburgh, Bureau of Police are subject to a thorough background investigation to verify the accuracy of statements provided within the applicant materials and to confirm qualification for employment. The background information is reviewed by the Chief and his/her command staff for selection purposes.
The following are some, but not all, of the background issues that may result in you not being selected/“decertified”:
Criminal felony convictions
Any federal, state, or local circumstance that would prohibit you from legally possessing a firearm
Pending traffic or criminal charges
Domestic violence
Restraining orders
Use of verbal, physical or mental abuse
Driving while under the influence
Any illegal activity
Moving violations (i.e., multiple speeding tickets, recent tickets)
Drug use
Other than honorable discharge from the military
Harassment, hazing incidents, derogatory stereotypes in jokes or daily language
Poor employment history
Deliberate omissions or falsehoods
Failure to pass all medical, physical, psychological examinations
Altercations with police or other individuals
Preparation Opportunities
Community College of Allegheny County (CCAC)
Written Exam Pre-Test Preparation is offered in cooperation with the Community College of Allegheny County (CCAC). We have partnered with the CCAC to offer test preparation to all official Police Officer applicants at no cost. The test preparation session will include a review of pre-test materials and offer a practice examination, which is based on the examination. The session will also provide you with test taking techniques, confidence building exercises, and ways to avoid test anxiety. This is an excellent opportunity to renew the skills necessary for success on the exam.
jasujazumdinski
Helpful Links
Fitness Preparation
Fitness Centers
Rec Centers (City of Pittsburgh Residents)
MPOETC Reading and Fitness Exam Event Description \| Test Standards
Examination Preparation
Khan Academy
Social Psychology Network
Mind Tools
Freerice
Pittsburgh Public School ERT
In the CTE Emergency Response Technology (ERT) program, students learn to apply technical knowledge and skills required to perform entry level duties in fire fighting, emergency medical services, and law enforcement. Please click here to learn more
last updated: 04/22/2025
Back to top
Ready
jasujazumdinski