Skip to main content
opens in new tab or window
In This Section

City Planning  - About City Planning
City Planning Meeting Calendar
City Planning Public Notices
Commissions and Boards
Historic Preservation Program
Public Art Program
Neighborhood Planning
Master &amp; Neighborhood Plans
City Planning Projects    - Riverbank Conditions Assessment and Best Practices Study
Broadway Avenue Public Realm Project
Hays Woods
Pittsburgh’s Riverfront Zoning

City Planning Programs
Development Review Process Guides
Mobility and Infrastructure
Permits, Licenses, and Inspections
Digital Equity In Pittsburgh
Small Business Resources
Public Works
Zoning
Geographic Information Systems, Mapping &amp; Open Data
Procurement
PGH Lab
Sustainability

Frequently Asked Questions
What is zoning?
Zoning regulates what structures and land are used for, where a structure may locate on a lot, and how big that structure can be. It also regulates other elements of site development, such as accessory structures, parking, and landscape. Zoning regulations are divided into zoning districts, so that use, bulk, yard and development regulations are tailored to the character of each particular zoning district.
Why did the City need a Riverfront Zoning Amendment?
A Riverfront Zoning Amendment was needed to ensure that new zoning along Pittsburgh’s riverfront would proactively address the diverse needs of existing users and stakeholders, so that new development would respond to the varied character of Pittsburgh’s riverfront neighborhoods.
jasujazumdinski
What is the relationship between the Riverfront Zoning Amendment and the City’s other planning efforts?
The Riverfront Zoning Amendment is a vital tool in implementing the City’s previous and ongoing planning efforts, such as the Allegheny Riverfront Vision Plan, and the forthcoming Comprehensive Plan. These documents contain specific guidance as to how land should be managed, and how development should occur within the City of Pittsburgh. The RZA incorporated policies established through these previous and ongoing planning efforts, and establish specific development regulations that are key to implementing those policies.
last updated: 04/23/2025
Back to top
Ready
jasujazumdinski