opens in new tab or window
In This Section
Parks
Pools
Events
Park Facilities
Special Events  - Juneteenth Celebrations
Independence Day Celebration
Annual Gingerbread House Competition
Pittsburgh E-Arena Tournament
Black History Month
Community Festivals
Contact Special Events
Special Events News
Film & Event Management
Park Permits
About Parks
Community Festivals
Enjoy the diverse heritage, food and entertainment of Pittsburgh's neighborhoods. Throughout the year, community festivals celebrate city living and showcase the best features of our thriving neighborhoods.
Community Festival Program Grant
In existence since 1977, the Community Festival Program Grant has provided funding to help communities introduce and maintain neighborhood-focused festivals for over 40 years. The program's goal is to provide financial assistance to community groups so they may launch and develop an annual event to bring together their community and foster togetherness. Grantees are selected by committee and based on specific criteria. All approved grant applications receive up to $1,000.00 in reimbursed funds to assist with operations of their festivals.
The festival season is from June 1 to October 31.
Who is eligible to receive a CFP grant?
To be eligible for funding, your organization and event must meet all of the following criteria:
Applicant must be a non-profit, tax-exempt, Pittsburgh community-based organization;
The organization must have been in existence for at least three years;
The festival must be free and open to the public (festival cannot charge admission or otherwise condition entry to the event), and to the benefit of the community at large;
The festival may take place over more than one day, however, in alignment with program goals, priority will be focused on one-day events.
For full program details, please read the 2025 Community Festival informational document here(PDF, 250KB) or e-mail cfpgrant@pittsburghpa.gov. Please note that some program information has been updated for 2025.
The 2025 Community Festival Program Grant application window is closed. Please check back in early 2026 for more information on the next award cycle.
last updated: 04/30/2025
Back to top
Ready
jasujazumdinski