Pittsburgh International Airport Transformed
Pittsburgh International Airport is the front door and first impression for millions of annual travelers to the Pittsburgh region. The airport’s Terminal Modernization Program – a $1.4 billion effort to transform the airport experience – is wrapping up this year, with the new terminal expected to open by the end of 2025.
Pittsburgh International Airport is the front door and first impression for millions of annual travelers to the Pittsburgh region. The airport’s Terminal Modernization Program – a $1.4 billion effort to transform the airport experience – is wrapping up this year, with the new terminal expected to open by the end of 2025.
The new 700,000-square-foot terminal is the first in the United States to be designed and constructed for a post-pandemic world. Key design features, including large outdoor terraces and touchless processes, will allow for increased social distancing and access to the outdoors. The new terminal will consolidate and streamline operations including ticketing, baggage handling, security, ground transportation and concessions.
The region’s commitment to sustainability will be evident throughout construction and operation of the new terminal, with an aim to comply with LEED® Silver certification and an intent to reduce overall energy, emissions, water and waste across airport facilities by 2030.
When the Terminal Modernization Program is completed, visitors will experience new airport facilities that better reflect and serve the community, inspire the industry and advance the region’s role as a world leader in innovation.
Among planned enhancements are increasing the main security checkpoint area, reducing the time it takes to get from curbside to airside and increasing the area for concessions and retail. Plans also are in place to increase covered parking, reduce the time it takes to get from International Arrivals to curbside and construct a multi-modal transportation center complete with new rental car facilities and surface parking lots.
As Pittsburgh continues to strengthen its position on the world stage, the airport strives to better meet the needs of business and leisure travelers which are constantly evolving. The city is home to some of the best universities producing exceptional, impactful leaders in the technology, medical and robotic sectors. The airport modernization will deliver real opportunity to the region while also creating a lasting first impression for visitors and showcasing regional arts and cultural amenities.
Beyond the new terminal, airport leaders are improving facilities both on and around the airfield. In summer 2021, Pittsburgh International became the first airport in the world completely powered by an independent microgrid. Using nearly 10,000 solar panels and on-site natural gas, the first-of-its-kind microgrid increases resilience and maximizes public safety. The airport will remain connected to the traditional electrical grid as an option for emergency or backup power.
Named “Airport of the Year” by Air Transport Magazine in 2017, Pittsburgh International Airport is a two-time Travel + Leisure Top-10 Domestic Airport honoree ( 2018, 2019) and most recently was named one of the “World’s Most Innovative Companies” by Fast Company in 2020.

jasujazumdinski
Author
Alex Soller
Communications &amp; Public Relations Manager
A storyteller, food lover and art admirer, thriving in curated chaos. Enjoys long walks on city streets and can usually be found at your local farmer’s market or snuggled up on the couch with her dog.
This site uses cookies to enhance your experience.
Accept
jasujazumdinski