Pittsburgh Ghost Tours
Are you looking to experience Pittsburgh's spooky side? Take a guided tour and learn about the eerie legends and ghostly encounters that have left their mark on Steel City.
Walking Tours
Ghost Hunting
Pittsburgh’s Most Haunted
Guided Walking Tours
Haunted Pittsburgh
Tour Times: Friday and Saturday evenings, May-November (with extra tours in October) at 7 PM Starting Location: City-County Building \| 414 Grant Street
Haunted Pittsburgh prides themselves on being the ghost tour in Pittsburgh. Their impressive tour has earned its esteemed reputation, taking you to as many haunted sites as they can in their 75 to 90-minute tours. Prepare to hear spine-tingling stories of the city’s history and a few juicy secrets, too!
Book a Tour
Pittsburgh Ghosts: Sinister Shadows of Steel City
Tour Times: Nightly at 8 PM Starting Location: Mellon Square \| Smithfield Street & Oliver Avenue
As the sun goes down in Pittsburgh, the spirits of its industrial past awaken. This tour will take you to some of the city's most haunted spots to hear their stories, including the Pittsburgh Playhouse, Old Allegheny Jail Museum, and the Clayton Mansion.
Book A Tour
Black & Ghost Tour
Tour Times: Nightly, August-April at 7 PM and September-March at 6 PM Starting Location: 1049 Penn Avenue
Walk The Burgh Tours calls their Black & Ghost Tour not a haunted tour, but a history tour with a spooky twist! Walk with a guide through downtown Pittsburgh at the witching hour, see historic landmarks, and learn about the spirits that lurk inside them.
Book a Tour
jasujazumdinski
Walking Tour Starting Locations
Haunted Pittsburgh
1City-County Building
Book Tour
Pittsburgh Ghosts: Sinister Shadows of Steel City
2Mellon Square
Book Tour
Black & Ghost Tour
31049 Penn Avenue
Book Tour
Ghost Hunting in Pittsburgh
Ghosts N’at
Put a spooky twist on date night, girls’ night, or a private event with a ghost-hunting adventure from Ghosts N’at. They’ll provide you with all the necessary equipment for a memorable night in some of Pittsburgh’s most haunted sites. Their goal as a company is to highlight haunted historic locations and provide financial support to help preserve and maintain them, so you know you’re getting a legitimate experience with hosts who respect the spirits and their stories.
Learn More

Skeptics and true believers will both enjoy a ghost tour as a thrilling way to learn more about Pittsburgh’s haunted history. So, if you're ready to uncover the secrets lurking in the shadows, grab your ticket and step into the unknown. You never know what (or who) you might encounter along the way
Pittsburgh’s Most Haunted
Can’t get enough of the spooky spirits in Pittsburgh?
Read more...if you dare
jasujazumdinski
You May Also Like
Pittsburgh Halloween Events & Haunted ActivitiesFrom haunted houses to escape rooms, corn mazes and family friendly trick or treating at the…\
Learn More
Pittsburgh Walking ToursWalk, tour, eat and explore\
Learn More
Pittsburgh HistoryPittsburgh was called the "Gateway to the West" from its earliest days as a frontier village.\
Learn More
Related Content:
Save
Haunted Pittsburgh LLCPittsburgh, Pennsylvania
Details Open in Google Maps
Map
(412) 385-2015
Details
Website
BESbswy
jasujazumdinski