Finding Community, Conversation + Locally-Sourced Creations at Troy Hill’s Scratch & Co. In Troy Hill, Scratch & Co. — a cozy, tavern-esque spot with welcoming vibes — represents this city’s collaborative spirit and focus on regional sourcing. Owner Don Mahaney describes their venue as being true to itself — and a genuine neighborhood restaurant in Pittsburgh. “We carry that sense of place into each shift,” he says. “Like all Pittsburghers, we are fiercely loyal to the region, and uncommonly welcoming to all. Like Pittsburgh itself being conveniently tucked away among mountains and rivers, and yet boasting world-class industry, art and tech, the restaurant is a gem nestled in the Troy Hill neighborhood that features best-in-class food and drink focused on sourcing, technique and hospitality.” Scratch & Co. opened in November 2015. Mahaney finds Troy Hill to be unique since it’s an area where growth happens gradually — “one house and neighbor at a time,” he says. “Unlike areas targeted by developers, improvements here don’t drive up rent or displace residents with new condos or apartments.” Like many Pittsburghers, Mahaney left and boomeranged back. He was born here, moved to Indianapolis at age six and returned to the city in the fifth grade. “I got my first taste of the restaurant industry working bingo nights at the Mount Troy and Bauerstown Fire Halls,” he says. Then after working in restaurants in Cleveland for nearly a decade, he returned to Pittsburgh in 2006, eventually taking over Billy’s Troy Hill Bistro, where he spent a lot of time and dove back into the restaurant industry. (Growing up, his maternal grandparents lived in the Troy Hill neighborhood.) Throughout the years, Scratch has hosted a number of pop-up concepts and startup food businesses in its homey space, serving as an incubator or sorts for other budding entrepreneurs. Over time, though, the team learned that the sustained resource and dedication needed to mature each pop-up concept was out of reach for them with such limited engagements. “When our current chefs saw an opportunity to pivot our concept with a great deal of intention and focus on our local food footprint,” Mahaney says, “we made commitments to one another to advance our shared vision. I can think of no more important instance of nourishing the entrepreneur spirit than the work chefs David Bigbee and Josh Pruss and the team have been engaged in these past 10 months.” Recently they’ve begun sourcing a good deal of their food (upwards of 90%) from Three Rivers Grown, Be.Wild.Er farm, Footprints Farm and Weiss Provisions. “Our dedication to our local foodshed is serious and takes into consideration not just the miles that our food is traveling to get to our backdoor,” Mahaney shares, “but also the economic impact on the farmers and distributors we are buying from.” Though the menu is constantly rotating here, dishes include Sunday brunch delights (fresh bagels with schmear, shakshuka, smashed potatoes) and can’t-miss starters on Wednesday through Saturday evening dinners like the focaccia with muhammara, wings and pickled mushrooms. You won’t want to pass over tavern menu items like the classic smash burger and chicken sandwich (pecorino-fried chicken, tahini buffalo, basil, lettuce, b&b pickles on brioche), or mains on Friday and Saturday nights ranging from the NY strip and meatloaf to trout with Tokyo bekana, apple, fennel, delicata squash and pomegranate glaze. Desserts include their Smore’s Sundae, Millie's Ice Cream offerings (vegan, too) and the Apple Focaccia Dolce. Also, trust us that you won’t want to miss the “Milk+Cookies” for a perfect sweet finale. Mahaney believes building strong relationships with farming cooperatives, smallholder farms and those engaged in regenerative farming practices is key to their effort to forever refine and improve a sense of sustained community impact. He knows they’re not a very big restaurant, seating only 80 guests, and he also knows they cannot change the world. Yet he trusts they can make a difference — even a significant one — for their staff, guests and growing partners, as they continue to focus on the health of those relationships. Mahaney’s local pride is evident, and his hope strong for what this city can be, especially for budding fellow business owners. “Pittsburgh has a unique entrepreneurial spirit, with a deep sense of community and pride driving people to continually invent and reinvent, even in tough times,” he says. “Whether in the restaurant scene or in other industries, Pittsburghers are proud of their sense of place and are committed to contributing to the city's ongoing growth.” *Stay tuned for ever-evolving events at Scratch, like a new Tuesday night program called Compliments. This means that, from 5 to 10 p.m, chefs send out tasty snacks (at no charge) that will rotate each week (for example, week one involved wings, pakora, seasoned popcorn, hoagies and veggie sandwiches served
jasujazumdinski
on fresh focaccia). These bites can be enjoyed amid hip beats and tealights galore, while chatting with friendly neighbors and sipping on wine, beer or cocktails — including innovative and delicious “dealer’s choice” creations. Some weeks will feature themes and guests, too, from a magician to New Orleans jazz pianist, while other Tuesdays will support causes like local nonprofits. Mahaney’s overall aim with these unique gatherings? To remove financial pressure and create an opportunity for everyone to show up — and to be in conversation and community.
jasujazumdinski
Corinne W
Freelance Writer & Editor
Corinne is happy to be back closer to home (D.C.) after 11 years in the glorious Pacific Northwest. Though she cherishes global adventures, she also lives for discovering local gems, from the best spots for coffee, conversation and soul-nourishing music, to water activities and trails on which to walk a loveable little husky. You can follow her on Instagram at @travelcorx