Memorial Day Weekend in Pittsburgh
If you're looking for things to do on Memorial Day weekend in 2025, you've come to the right spot!
Memorial Day Weekend is coming soon, and Pittsburgh is the place to be for inspiring ceremonies and patriotic events. Memorial Day pays tribute to all American men and women who died in active military service. Pittsburgh honors these heroes with a variety of events throughout the city. If you're spending Memorial Day weekend in Pittsburgh, here are some events that offer a way to pay your respects and have some family fun since the holiday is also the unofficial kickoff to Summer.

Soldiers & Sailors Memorial Hall & Museum Celebration
May 26, 2025, 11 a.m.-4 p.m.
Be at Soldiers & Sailors Memorial Hall & Museum for a free celebration! Begin the day by visiting the all-day tribute to fallen Pennsylvania service members. Stay for the afternoon for free tours of the museum and family-friendly activities including crafts and fun contests with prizes. Food and beverages will also be available for purchase and celebrity personality Mike Frazer of 3WS will host the day's events. The museum will also be observing the National Moment of Remembrance at 3 p.m.
jasujazumdinski
Red, Wild & Blue Day
May 26, 2025
Kick off a summer of fun at Pittsburgh Zoo & Aquarium with this special day filled with a variety of special enrichment activities for the animals and a special contest to support members of the military.
Hookstown Grange Annual Memorial Day Car Cruise
May 26, 2025, 12-3 p.m.
Come enjoy the Hookstown Grange Car Show at the Hookstown Fairgrounds. Parking and admission are both free. There will be a raffle and food available. For more information, call 724-573-9377.
Lawrenceville Memorial Day Parade
May 26, 2025, 10 a.m.-3 p.m.
Put on your red, white and blue and head to Lawrenceville's annual Memorial Day Parade, one of the longest-running parades in the country. The parade features more than 65 groups including marching bands, veterans' organizations, dogs, classic cars, local sports mascots and more.
The parade kicks off at 36th and Butler Streets and ends at the Allegheny Cemetery, the final resting place for more than 15,000 Veterans. Immediately following the parade, a memorial tribute service will be held at the Soldier's Memorial.
Allegheny Cemetery
Visit a Memorial
Memorial Day is the perfect time to visit one of Pittsburgh's many memorials and monuments. You can visit:
Korean War Memorial
Law Enforcement Officer's Memorial
World War II Memorial
Tribute to Children Memorial
Vietnam Veterans' Monument
Flight 93 National Memorial
jasujazumdinski
Go on a Monument Walking Tour
The best way to see some of the most well-known monuments in our city is to go on our self-guided North Shore walking tour. This short tour is mostly flat and gives lots of time for you to pause and reflect as long as you need at each stop.
Other Things to Do Memorial Day Weekend
Concerts, live theatre and other special events May 23-26, 2025:
Kennywood opens for daily operation starting Friday, May 23
Good Business: Andy Warhol’s Screenprints, The Andy Warhol Museum, Opens on May 23
Memorial Day Weekend at Nemacolin, May 23-26
Chalk Fest, Federal St., May 24-25
2025 East Coast Volleyball Championships, David L. Lawrence Convention Center, May 25-26
Bigger Gayer Picniq, Allegheny Commons Park West, May 25
Related Blogs
\
Only in Pittsburgh Summer Festivals & Events
Learn More
\
10 Awesome Pittsburgh Summer Date Nights
Learn More
\
Where to Enjoy a Summer Beer in Pittsburgh
Learn More
\
Ways to Celebrate the 4th of July in Pittsburgh in 2025
Learn More
\
Top 25 Things to Do in Pittsburgh
Learn More
jasujazumdinski
Asaka N.
jasujazumdinski