Oakmont: Neighborhood Guide
A suburb just minutes northeast of city, Oakmont is the place to go if you're looking for a place that feels like a vacation and a home at the same time.
Nestled along the Allegheny River, just a short drive from Pittsburgh, Oakmont is a charming neighborhood known for its unique boutiques, tried-and-true dining options and being a filming location for multiple notable movies, including ‘A Man Called Otto’ and ‘The Fault in Our Stars’.
Plus, Oakmont will play host to the 125th U.S. Open Golf Championship in June 2025.
You can easily spend a few days exploring the surrounding area with our Verona, Blawnox + Fox Chapel, and Sharpsburg + Aspinwall (coming soon) guides as well.
If you think we missed a spot, send us an email and let us know.
EAT
Oakmont is dotted with an array of eateries to satisfy any craving. Here are some must-visit locations:
HOFFSTOT'S CAFÉ MONACO
A local institution known for its classic Italian dishes and friendly atmosphere, Hoffstot’s Café Monaco is perfect for a cozy dinner with family or friends. They offer an early bird dinner menu from 4-6 p.m. during the week, a prime rib dinner special on Mondays, and—a family favorite—spaghetti Sundays, which includes a tossed salad or wedding soup, bread and butter, your choice of pasta and sauce for $15 (+tax).
THE LOT AT EDGEWATER
Modern and inviting, this new age chophouse and cigar bar is a great option for delicious drinks and small plates for happy hour or a more luxurious dinner, featuring an eclectic mix—from oysters on the half, grilled olives and charcuterie to the finest cuts of steak, pork or lamb chops, salmon and everything in between. The Lot is open for breakfast and lunch seven days a week as well. During the week, their happy hour includes specials on cocktails on tap, wine by the glass and draft beer from 4-6 p.m.
The cigar bar is located on the second floor with weekday hours beginning at 5 p.m. and at 11 a.m. Friday through Sunday. On Friday, the cigar bar includes a free buffet from 11:30 a.m. to 2:30 p.m. with the purchase of a cigar and drink.
Other specials include All You Can Eat Crab Legs on Tuesdays, Oyster & Wine Night on Wednesdays and live acoustic music on Thursdays.
Photo Credit: @thelotatedgewater on Insta
CARNIVORES
A must-visit for meat lovers, this sports bar serves up some of the best wings, burgers, and hearty American bar food. Carnivores is a great spot to grab a beer or cocktail and watch your favorite sports teams.
THE PUB AT 333
The Pub at 333 is the perfect place for a laid-back date night or evening out with friends. Their wide array of pub-style food offers a modern twist that won’t disappoint in a rustic, comforting atmosphere.
PITTSBURGH TACO BOYS
This taco truck-turned-brick-and-mortar shop packs a punch, with a delicious selection of tacos, quesadillas, empanadas and ‘boyritos’ with unique Pittsburgh flair.
LEONE'S PIZZA
A beloved Oakmont pizzeria known for its authentic pies and friendly service, perfect for grabbing a pie on the go! They also have a small section of seating for in-house dining.
MICHAEL A'S ITALIAN
Offering a menu of Italian cuisine, Michael A’s is perfect for a special occasion or date night. Their menu features wood-fired pizza, pasta, small plates and large plates alongside martinis, spritz, wine, beer and more. Make sure to leave room for one of their traditional Italian desserts or a creamy limoncello after dinner!
They also offer a late-night menu on Fridays and Saturdays from 10 p.m. to midnight.
THE OAKMONT TAVERN (VINNIE'S TAVERN)
A local favorite for dining and nightlife, this lively spot is known for its great food, drinks, and live entertainment. They have plenty of seating with bars and tables spanning two floors.
SOMMA PIZZA & SPORTS BAR
While the address is technically listed as Verona, Somma Pizza & Sports Bar sits directly across the street from the Oakmont Country Club’s east golf course. Enjoy delicious pizza and catch the latest game at this popular bar and restaurant decked out with sports memorabilia.
jasujazumdinski
DRINK
From fresh juices to cozy cafes, Oakmont offers plenty of spots to relax and recharge.
THE JUICERY AT OAKMONT
For a healthy refreshment, head to The Juicery for fresh, organic cold-pressed juices, smoothies, and acai bowls. Pair it with a class at Be Yoga Oakmont, right next door to refresh your body and mind.
MOONBEAM CAFÉ
A quaint café offering great coffee, teas, and baked goods. Moonbeam Café is the perfect place to start your day, catch up on work or unwind with a book.
LOCAL REMEDY BREWING
This new local brewery has been pouring beer at pop-ups and competing in home-brewing competitions over the past few years and they finally opened a brick-and-mortar location in Oakmont. For those who love golf, they sourced trees from Oakmont Country Club for some of their furniture!
Photo Credit: @localremedybrewing on Insta
INDULGE
One of the main reasons Pittsburghers travel out of the city to Oakmont regularly is for arguably the biggest bakery in the area, so while you’re there make sure you treat yourself.
OAKMONT BAKERY
Famous for its irresistible and monumental array of baked goods—from cakes and pastries to breads, bagels, pepperoni rolls and more, Oakmont Bakery is a must-visit. Despite its popularity and range of products, they have managed to keep their prices quite low, adding to the appeal.
Beyond baked goods, they also offer a made-to-order selection at their café, including breakfast sandwiches, coffee and other beverages and more.
BRR-KEE'S HOMEMADE ICE CREAM
Another option to fulfill those sweet cravings is with some of the creamiest homemade ice cream in town at Brr-Kee’s Homemade Ice Cream, right next to Taco Boys.
jasujazumdinski
SHOP
Oakmont is home to several locally owned shops offering everything from fashion to specialty foods. Check them out!
PICKLES & PANCETTA
Pickles & Pancetta specializes in premium charcuterie boards, antipasto spreads, gourmet sandwiches and more, but their new storefront also doubles as a retail store with a curated selection of meats, cheeses, jams and other Italian specialty products.
OAKMONT OLIVE OIL COMPANY
A unique shop offering premium, infused olive oils, balsamic vinegars and gourmet gifts.
MYSTERY LOVERS BOOKSHOP
Bookworms will love this cozy, independent bookstore specializing in mystery novels, with a well-curated selection of other genres. Make it even more of a mystery by purchasing their carefully curated “Blind Date” section.
Photo Credit: @mysteryloversbookshop on Insta
MULBERRY ANTIQUES
This quaint shop specializes in rustic Americana antiques, with restored furniture and accessories from the 18th and 19th
centuries.
URBANÄ BOUTIQUE
A local favorite for unique, inclusive fashion finds, with a mission to make women feel a sense of community and empowerment.
STRAIGHT LINE BOUTIQUE
Straight Line Boutique provides women with a streamlined shopping experience, featuring an array of wardrobe essentials, classic pieces and timeless items that never go out of style.
CARABELLA
This boutique offers chic, contemporary women’s fashion and accessories, perfect for updating your wardrobe.
OAKMONT CANDLE WORKS
This charming candle shop creates 100% natural, vegan soy candles, hand-poured in small batches.
FASHION RX BOUTIQUE
Another stylish spot
to find trendy women’s clothing, jewelry, and accessories.
PRECIOUS + POSH
A boutique featuring a wide collection of baby boys and girls clothing, blending classic and fresh styles.
OAKMONT GOLF CENTER
Golf enthusiasts can practice their swing or pick up gear at this golf shop, featuring a full indoor facility with simulators and instructors!
jasujazumdinski
SEE + DO
For those who are looking to explore, Oakmont boasts a wide range of activities and attractions.
OAKMONT COUNTRY CLUB
This world-renowned golf course has hosted several U.S. Opens and is a bucket-list destination for golf enthusiasts.
Please note that it’s a private golf course, and you must be with a member to visit. That said, the gift shop is located outside the main gate and can be visited by anyone.
THE OAKS THEATER
Catch a movie or a live show at this historic theater, which has been a part of Oakmont’s entertainment scene since 1938.
SURFSUP ADVENTURES
SurfSUP Adventures is your premier guide and outfitter for standup paddleboarding in Pittsburgh. Ready for some fun? Book a guided tour or rent a kayak or paddleboard to explore the Allegheny River on your own.
KERR MEMORIAL MUSEUM
Step back in time with a tour of this beautifully preserved 19th-century home, showcasing life during the Victorian era.
ZONE 28
For some family fun, head across Hulton Bridge to Zone 28 on Freeport Road. This entertainment center features a 33-lane bowling, arcade games, laser tag, and more.
Plus, the End Zone Sports Bar serves up a premium selection of spirits along with over 100 different kinds of beer alongside delicious grub.
\
6 Reasons Why Golfers Love Pittsburgh
Learn More
\
Best Bakeries in Pittsburgh
Learn More
\
Cozy Up With These Bookstores In Pittsburgh
Learn More
\
21 Foods You Can Only Get in Pittsburgh
Learn More
jasujazumdinski
Alex Soller
Communications & Public Relations Manager
A storyteller, food lover and art admirer, thriving in curated chaos. Enjoys long walks on city streets and can usually be found at your local farmer’s market or snuggled up on the couch with her dog.
jasujazumdinski