Pittsburgh: A Foodie Destination
Pittsburgh’s award-winning food is a huge draw for visitors, and it is continually getting recognized in national and international media. In 2019, BBC Good Food named Pittsburgh one of the top-10 destinations for foodies – the only U.S. city to make the list.
Pittsburgh’s award-winning food is a huge draw for visitors, and it is continually getting recognized in national and international media. In 2019, BBC Good Food named Pittsburgh one of the top-10 destinations for foodies – the only U.S. city to make the list.
Pittsburgh is a city built on innovation, and that certainly doesn’t stop with the food thanks to Pittsburgh’s chef-driven fare. In fact, the city is home to more than a dozen James Beard Award semifinalists, most recently Nik Forsberg of fet-fisk, a multi-faceted pop-up project recently turned full-service restaurant; Kate Lasky and Tomasz Skowronski of Apteka in Bloomfield; and Wei Zhu of Chengdu Gourmet in Squirrel Hill.
fet-fisk was also recognized as one of the best restaurants in America by the New York Times in 2024.
New restaurants and concepts play a large role in Pittsburgh’s hot culinary renaissance. From Ritual House
(Downtown) to Carmi’s Soul Food (Mexican War Streets), Brothmonger (Bloomfield), Novo Asian Food Hall (Strip District) and many others – there are plenty of options sure to satisfy any hungry appetite.
Consider these tasty news morsels. Yelp users voted traditional middle eastern bakery Pitaland one of the top-100 restaurants in the U.S. in 2023; upscale sushi and gin bar gi-jin ranked in 2022 and DiAnoia’s Eatery in 2021. Food &amp; Wine declared Squirrel Hill’s Pigeon Bagels as one of the best bagel shops in the nation. And, P&amp;G’s Pamela’s Diner is known for its famous lyonnaise potatoes and crepe-style hotcakes, which are presidential approved.
The Pittsburgh food scene is on the rise. Today, the city boasts many restaurants all within easy walking distance of Downtown hotels, like Sally Ann’s, The Rebel Room, Bridges &amp; Bourbon, Alta Via, and Gaucho Parilla Argentina.
Con Alma offers a popular hotspot in the heart of Pittsburgh’s Downtown Cultural District. Inspired by Pittsburgh’s rich heritage of jazz, Con Alma seeks to return jazz to its rightful place at the forefront of the local music scene while providing patrons with some of the best food and drinks the city has to offer.
Even with all the new and flashy dining options, the city hasn’t forgotten its roots. A visit to the Original Oyster House will take visitors back more than 150 years to Pittsburgh’s oldest bar and restaurant. Located in Market Square Downtown, the unique tavern has been designated a historic landmark by the Pittsburgh History and Landmarks Foundation.
While Pittsburgh’s appetite for traditional culinary staples – such as pierogies, kielbasa and cabbage rolls introduced by European immigrants or french fry- and coleslaw-garnished Primanti Bros. sandwiches – is still going strong, the food scene in this city of three rivers has exploded, much like the city itself.
There are now more than 100 restaurants in the Downtown Pittsburgh area and many more in the city’s 90 unique and diverse neighborhoods. In addition to the many restaurant options, visitors will also find numerous annual food festivals across the city throughout the year, including Little Italy Days and Picklesburgh – a dilly of a pickle festival in honor of Pittsburgh’s own H.J. Heinz.
Foodies from near and far alike love the Strip District. The Strip, as it’s known by locals, is all grit and pure Pittsburgh. With its universal grocers, sidewalk vendors and string of small shops, the Strip is a scene seven days a week. Restaurants of note within the neighborhood include Eleven which boasts modern, refined American fare and cocktails in a stylish restaurant; Kaya and its sea- and sun-inspired dishes from the Caribbean Islands, South America, the Pacific and beyond; and Coop De Ville, a southern table, fast-casual restaurant and bar in a fun atmosphere with duckpin bowling and arcade games.
Nestled on the top of a steep hill overlooking the city’s skyline is the picturesque neighborhood of Mount Washington, home to a variety of fine-dining restaurants with breathtaking views, like Monterey Bay Fish Grotto, Altius and more.
Additional neighborhood gems waiting to be discovered include: Spork in Garfield; Umami and Walter’s Southern Kitchen
in Lawrenceville; Alla Famiglia in Allentown; and Siempre Algo and Fig &amp; Ash in the Northside. And, don’t miss Federal Galley (Northside) and City Kitchen (East Liberty) – two restaurant incubators building the city’s next hottest dish.

jasujazumdinski
Author
Alex Soller
Communications &amp; Public Relations Manager
A storyteller, food lover and art admirer, thriving in curated chaos. Enjoys long walks on city streets and can usually be found at your local farmer’s market or snuggled up on the couch with her dog.
This site uses cookies to enhance your experience.
Accept
jasujazumdinski