5 Big Reasons People Love Pittsburgh Pittsburgh is a vibrant, mid-sized city that has the feel of a small town coupled with the big-city amenities that travelers love. Pittsburgh is a city transformed on the brink of a boisterous movement, receiving recent recognition via Lonely Planet’s 2025 Best in Travel, USA Today 10Best, National Geographic and Men’s Journal. Additionally, the city has been chosen as the host of the 2026 NFL Draft and is looking forward to a number of major enhancements in the coming years, including a $600M investment from the state, a new state-of-the-art airport terminal, a highly-anticipated luxury hotel and much more. 1. It feels like a home away from home – Pittsburgh is a vibrant, mid-sized city that has the feel of a small town coupled with the big-city amenities that travelers love. Pittsburgh offers a surprising and unexpected experience, with natural beauty, unique terrain and diverse offerings at every turn. And while Pittsburgh continues to push the envelope with major contributions in technology, education, medicine, robotics and beyond, the city’s history and blue-collar image makes it approachable and unpretentious – giving visitors the best of both worlds. 2. Everyone is welcome – Pittsburgh’s approachability can be seen on the faces of its energetic, hard-working and proud people. As a city of 90 neighborhoods built by immigrants, its community and values have held strong over hundreds of years. Many special events and festivals are hosted across the city throughout the year to celebrate the various cultures engrained in Pittsburgh, from the Pittsburgh Humanities Festival to Pride Revolution, Juneteenth Freedom Day, Pittsburgh Black Music Festival, Pittsburgh Irish Festival and many more. But you don’t need to be at one of these events to experience Pittsburgh’s comradery – no matter where you find yourself, you’ll find yourself embraced with kindness. - You can bring the whole family – Whether it’s a work trip or vacation, families love Pittsburgh. It’s an especially family-friendly destination thanks to its many unique, affordable attractions and activities for all ages. With an experience fit for every member of the family, Pittsburgh is bursting with history, science, entertainment and adventure just waiting to be discovered. 3. Craft rules all – From its world-class food and beverage scenes to the many arts and culture experiences, the people behind Pittsburgh’s biggest attractions are what make the city so special. They love what they do, they lift each other up and they love sharing their craft with visitors from across the globe. No matter your interest, you’re bound to be impressed with the unique, artisanal offerings you find in Pittsburgh. - Arts &amp; Culture – The vibrant arts and culture scene is alive and thriving in Pittsburgh. Throughout the city and the region, galleries and museums offer everything from cutting-edge to classic. The entertainment is endless, and the quality and variety superb. - Culinary Delights – Pittsburgh is a city built on innovation, and that certainly doesn’t stop with the food thanks to Pittsburgh’s chef-driven fare. New restaurants and concepts play a large role in Pittsburgh’s hot culinary renaissance. In fact, there are now more than 100 restaurants in the Downtown Pittsburgh area alone and many more throughout the city’s 90 unique and diverse neighborhoods. In addition to the countless restaurant options, visitors will also find numerous annual food festivals across the city throughout the year, including Little Italy Days and Picklesburgh – a dilly of a pickle festival in honor of Pittsburgh’s own H.J. Heinz. - Beverage Boom – Pittsburgh and the surrounding region have been fighting for craft beverage since 1794, dating back to the infamous Whiskey Rebellion, and it remains a premier craft beverage destination with a wide range of tastebud-enticing, thirst-quenching options, including local craft beers, spirits, cider, mead, wine, coffee, juice and more. Pittsburgh’s craft beverage scene has grown immensely over the past several years with more than 50 breweries, and more and more local distillers, coffee roasters, etc. popping up every month. 4. It’s THE Sports City – Aptly named the City of Champions, Pittsburgh is home to three widely-known professional sports teams – the Steelers, Penguins and Pirates – each with its own dynamic history of world championships, incredible moments and hall of fame players. Beyond bleeding black and gold, Pittsburgh hosts a wide array of other notable sporting events throughout the year, from NCAA championship events to large-scale national and global events that can drive tens of thousands of visitors into the region. 5. It’s an urban adventure – With 90 unique neighborhoods and breathtaking views from every angle, there are endless opportunities for outdoor adventure in Pittsburgh. One of the best ways to explore Pittsburgh is to take to the streets to experience its natural beauty, unique terrain and diverse offerings at every turn.
jasujazumdinski
Pittsburgh is incredibly walkable, and biking reigns supreme thanks to bike-accessible hotels and public transportation, an easy-to-use bikeshare system and a devoted community of cyclists. Plus, there is plenty of opportunity for watersports, including boating, kayaking and paddleboarding on Pittsburgh’s three rivers. - Sustainable Innovations – Wrapped in rivers, intertwined with trails and packed with parks, Pittsburgh is not only green in a sense of scenery. From the point that visitors land at Pittsburgh International Airport to various attractions, restaurants, shops and more, the region’s commitment to the environment is profound. While Pittsburgh was once the poster child of industrial pollution, the successful urban environmental transformation over the last half-century has become a case study in sustainability. 
jasujazumdinski
Author
Alex Soller
Communications &amp; Public Relations Manager
A storyteller, food lover and art admirer, thriving in curated chaos. Enjoys long walks on city streets and can usually be found at your local farmer’s market or snuggled up on the couch with her dog.
This site uses cookies to enhance your experience.
Accept
jasujazumdinski