Insider's Guide: Children's Museum of Pittsburgh
Discover childlike wonder at the Children's Museum of Pittsburgh and MuseumLab!
Located in Pittsburgh's North Side, directly next to the National Aviary, the Children's Museum of Pittsburgh is always ready to welcome those of all ages indulge their inner child.
Credit \|
Children's Museum of Pittsburgh
Plan Your Visit
Tickets to the Children's Museum can be bought upon arrival, but it's highly encouraged you reserve tickets in advance for the day you wish to visit through the online reservation system. Having your tickets printed or on your phone speeds along your admission so you can spend more time having fun! You may also reserve your tickets by calling 412.322.5058, ext 210, during open hours.
Reserved tickets are good all day – arrive at your desired time and stay as long as you like.
Members are free for general admission everyday. Member guests receive 20% off admission price. Free admission is also provided to any therapeutic support staff, counselor, doctor, therapist or nurse that accompanies a visitor as part of their professional responsibilities. There's also a discount for group admission for groups of 15 or more.
NOW OPEN: I Am Wild: A Charley Harper Exhibit
Through Aug. 31
Explore six habitats filled with colorful animals, insects and birds inspired by the artwork of Charley Harper and the ‘I Am Wild’ series of children’s books about biodiversity. Discover the diversity and interdependency of life in the natural world and all the creatures that live in it.
Habitats to explore include:
Ocean
Woodlands
Rainforest
Sky
City
Desert
You can also view a collection of Charley Harper artworks on display that highlight some of the artist’s favorite subjects and printmaking methods he used during his career.
jasujazumdinski
Permanent Exhibits
All permanent exhibits at the Children's Museum were created by its in-house exhibit design team! They include:
The Kindness Gallery: A new exhibit about kindness and empathy in the museum's former Attic space
Makeshop: Make, play, and design using real materials, tools, and processes.
Art Studio: Learn new art forms and work alongside artists in a multimedia art studio
Garage: Climb high, spin around, and explore things that bounce, race, and roll
Nursery: A serene space for both quiet, thoughtful play and active, creative exploration
Waterplay: Experience water as it flows, rains, channels, and spouts all around you
Garden: Enjoy the fruits, vegetables, herbs, and berries in the museum's outdoor gardens
Backyard: Currently closed for renovation. Stay tuned for something completely different!
Art at the Museum: Explore the interactive and visual art you can enjoy at the Children's Museum and MuseumLab
The Limb Bender: Crawl, twist, turn, and maneuver through this two-story chamber
MuseumLab
MuseumLab offers cutting-edge experiences in art, tech, and learning for youth and teens right next door to the Children's Museum. It includes exhibits, workshops, camps, and an after school program centered on exploring arts and making. Youth can engage with artists, learn new skills, make connections, express themselves, and create cool things.
Credit \|
Roy Englebrecht
jasujazumdinski
Pittsburgh is KidsBURGH®!
Pittsburgh is the perfect destination for unforgettable family fun! Featuring many fantastic attractions, Pittsburgh has plenty of entertainment options for kids of all ages. Plan your KidsBURGH® trip today!
\
Pittsburgh Is Kidsburgh!
Explore Pittsburgh's family-friendly attractions all summer long!
Details
\
Top 11 Things to Do with a Family in Pittsburgh
In Pittsburgh, summer is the perfect time to explore all the family fun the city has to offer!
Details
\
Pittsburgh: A Family Travel Destination
Pittsburgh is especially family friendly thanks to its many unique, affordable attractions and activities for all ages.
Details
\
Pittsburgh is KidsBURGH®
Throughout Pittsburgh’s evolution from a steel-producing town to a hub for tech innovation, leaders have prioritized creating and providing opportunities…
Details
\
Insider’s Guide: National Aviary
Enjoy immersive, awe-inspiring experiences at the National Aviary
Details
\
6 Behind-the-Scenes Pittsburgh Experiences
There's more to Pittsburgh than what meets the eye.
Details
\
Pittsburgh Attractions Take Center Stage in USA Today’s 10Best Travel Awards 2025
Another year, more big wins from USA Today for Pittsburgh's top attractions
Details
jasujazumdinski
Taylor S.
Content Development Manager
A friendly neighborhood Pittsburgh transplant.
Probably at book club, a local coffee shop or thrift store. Tell your pet I said hi.
Related Content:
Save
Children's Museum of Pittsburgh and MuseumLab10 Children's Way
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15212
Details Open in Google Maps
Map
Children's Museum of Pittsburgh and MuseumLab
10 Children's WayPittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15212(412) 322-5058
Details
Website
0
jasujazumdinski