Pittsburgh: A Family Travel Destination
Pittsburgh is especially family friendly thanks to its many unique, affordable attractions and activities for all ages.
Pittsburgh is especially family friendly thanks to its many unique, affordable attractions and activities for all ages, from riding thrilling coasters to discovering exotic birds, walking among the dinosaurs and much more. In fact, it’s even known as KidsBURGH®! With an experience fit for every member of the family, Pittsburgh is bursting with history, science, entertainment and adventure just waiting to be discovered.
Minutes from Downtown, Kennywood is one of Pittsburgh's beloved historic landmarks with endless excitement for thrill-seeking adults and children alike, including three wooden roller coasters, Pennsylvania's fastest (Phantom's Revenge) and tallest (Steel Curtain) coasters, and dozens of other great attractions for all ages. Plus, Kennywood celebrated its 125th season in 2023 with the grand opening of Spinvasion, the first multi-action spin ride of its kind in the U.S. pitting riders in a thrilling battle against alien invaders to defend Pittsburgh.
The Pittsburgh Zoo & Aquarium is another Pittsburgh staple offering families year-round fun for 125 years with exciting animal exhibits and educational experiences.
Other longstanding family-friendly attractions that parents can feel especially good about due to the integration of educational and cultural experiences in fun settings include the Children’s Museum of Pittsburgh (voted #2 children’s museum in the U.S. by USA Today readers), Heinz History Center (voted #1 history museum in the U.S. by USA Today readers), Carnegie Museums of Art and Natural History, National Aviary and more.
There are also numerous new attractions for the whole family to enjoy. Moonshot Museum is Pennsylvania’s first space museum and the first museum in the world to focus on career and community readiness for the 21st century space industry. Visitors can embark on simulated lunar missions inspired by real space industry challenges, meet space professionals and find their place in the future of human space exploration from Mission Control in Pittsburgh's Northside. Plus, Moonshot Museum offers the unparalleled opportunity to see a real spacecraft being built – an experience unlike any other in the world.
The Daniel G. and Carole L. Kamin Science Center also has a new 7,400-square-foot permanent exhibit, titled Mars: The Next Giant Leap, which launches visitors on a 300-million-mile journey to Mars, where they will explore relevant, contemporary issues that surround space exploration. It’s the most expansive new experience added since the Science Center opened in 1991.
In addition to the many attractions and museums perfect for families, Pittsburgh also has plenty of opportunities to get outdoors and explore the city’s 90 unique neighborhoods, from hiking and biking to kayaking, paddleboarding, boating and more. Kids can take joy in keeping track of how many of the 700 outdoor stairways and 446 walkable bridges within Pittsburgh’s limits their family conquers during their trip.
In exploring, visitors are bound to come across many festivals and events held across the city year-round, such as the EQT Children's Theater Festival, Dollar Bank Three Rivers Arts Festival, Picklesburgh and more. Many of these festivals are free to attend and offer another great opportunity for families to experience the best food and culture in Pittsburgh.
Families also won’t want to miss an opportunity to see the most spectacular panorama of the city from a birds-eye view by taking a ride on one of Pittsburgh's famous inclines! The observation deck at the top of Mt. Washington is the best spot to snap a picture of Pittsburgh’s skyline and three rivers. Plus, the Duquesne Incline has historical exhibits in the waiting rooms for entertainment between rides.
In regard to food and beverage, there are plenty of options sure to please even the pickiest of eaters, from fast-casual models or restaurants the don’t require reservations like Mad Mex, Square Cafe and Noodlehead to fun interactive spots like Shorty’s Pins x Pints and Coop De Ville. There’s even kid-friendly breweries like Threadbare Cider House, East End Brewery, Spoonwood Brewing Co. and Southern Tier.
jasujazumdinski
Alex Soller
Communications & Public Relations Manager
A storyteller, food lover and art admirer, thriving in curated chaos. Enjoys long walks on city streets and can usually be found at your local farmer’s market or snuggled up on the couch with her dog.
jasujazumdinski