GLOWLAND \| Pittsburgh's Premier Winter Lighting Festival
Illuminating Oakland Nov. 22-Dec. 14
Let it Glow. Let it Gloooooooow. Ok, now that that's stuck in your head, it's time to learn about GLOWLAND:
Entering its second year, GLOWLAND enlivens the Oakland neighborhood of Pittsburgh through light, art, music and play through a variety of interactive installations and special events. It's perfect for winter family fun, date night and friend groups to check out. Powered by the Oakland Business Improvement District (OBID), GLOWLAND illuminates two square miles of the Oakland civic and commercial district, including this year’s signature installation, LED Circle Swings.
LED Circle Swings
Nov. 22 - Dec. 14
LED Circle Swings are the highlight of GLOWLAND for the 2024 holiday season, located in Forbes Digital Plaza. If you enjoyed EXposure in 2023 and the light up, musical seesaws in 2022, the LED Circle Swings are taking the interactive art to the next level with an even more engaging display.
This participative installation is composed of large LED swings by Prevail Activations. Visitors are invited to explore and play with the swings as they change colors. Be sure to bring your camera: these interactive displays foster togetherness and will make for some of your favorite pics of the family and your loved ones during the holiday season.

jasujazumdinski
GLOWLAND Signature Events
Besides the art installation, this year's GLOWLAND features a variety of events from the wonder of a drone light show to parties and play days. Mark your calendars for:
GLOW Ball (21+)

Nov. 22, 6:30-10:30 p.m.
Wear your best glowing attire, light up the night and be ready to dance at the University Club. Enjoy themed signature cocktails, savor bites from Oakland’s finest food purveyors and experience GLOWLAND.

Celestial Choreography: A Drone Extravaganza

Dec. 7, 4:00-8:00 p.m.
Presented by Sky Elements: A custom drone light show, set to an electrifying soundtrack, will illuminate the night sky above Schenley Plaza and captivate the audience.

Illuminate Your Imagination Family Day

Dec. 14, 3:00-7:00 p.m.
Bring the whole family for a full day of free activities! Activities include: a music-led Glow Parade, a live ice sculpture show, face painting, balloon art, and a glow in the dark puppet show by Pittsburgh Puppet Works.

While You're There
It's easy to make a visit to GLOWLAND into an entire trip on your next visit to Pittsburgh. GLOWLAND is centrally located next to other top Pittsburgh attractions in the Oakland neighborhood, and is a five-minute walk from Phipps Conservatory &amp; Botanical Gardens, Carnegie Museums of Art &amp; Natural History, Heinz Chapel, the Cathedral of Learning and Soldiers &amp; Sailors Memorial Hall &amp; Museum. Many of these locations also do their own holiday programming, making it a wonderful weekend trip of lights and magic!
Also nearby you can find great places to eat like The Porch at Schenley and Primanti Bros' Oakland location and find nearby neighborhoods like Shadyside and Squirrel Hill perfect for holiday shopping. Stay at The Oaklander or Hilton Garden Inn in Oakland to make your trip even easier!

jasujazumdinski
Learn More
Visit the GLOWLAND website for more info. Follow more from GLOWLAND and the companies and organizations that make this unique event possible by liking Oakland Business Improvement District, Lucion Media and Wireframe Public Art on social media.
GLOWLAND is sponsored by UPMC Health Plan, University of Pittsburgh, Lighthouse Electric, and Elmhurst Group, with support from Carnegie Mellon University, Visit Pittsburgh, Wexford Science + Tech, and University Partners.
Explore More
Pittsburgh Holiday LightsExperience the sparkle this 2025 holiday season in Pittsburgh!\
Learn More
Oakland for the HolidaysCelebrate the holidays!\
Learn More
Holiday Photos in PittsburghKick off the holiday season with a family photo in your favorite city!\
Learn More
Pittsburgh Celebrates Light Up Night 2025Join us as we light up the city and officially kick-off the Pittsburgh holiday season!\
Learn More

Author
Jared B.
Enthusiastic Pittsburgher
Always in search of the next great craft beer and arcade. Can be found in the Supporters Section of Pittsburgh Riverhounds games and at whatever festival is happening in the city.
This site uses cookies to enhance your experience.
Accept
jasujazumdinski