AI Avenue \| Leading the AI Revolution in Pittsburgh
Google and Duolingo among 20+ artificial intelligence companies putting Pittsburgh's East End on the global stage
Lawrenceville is known for Robotics Row. The NorthSide is home to the Space Innovation District. And now, the East End of Pittsburgh is being reimagined as AI Avenue.
Pittsburgh continues to forge a new future in the tech industry, and this new innovation hub once again positions Pittsburgh as leaders in our information age. Read on to discover everything we know so far about AI Avenue.
(this article was published in Sept. 2024 and will be updated as new companies move into Bakery Square. At least until AI can update this blog by itself 😉 )
Play
What is AI Avenue?
Picture it: the one-mile stretch from Bakery Square to Duolingo's offices in East Liberty dotted with AI companies buzzing with activity as they trailblaze new technologies and finding new ways to synergize and lead the way in AI.
Why this area of Pittsburgh? It's simple. Bakery Square is already home to global innovators in the AI space like Google, UPMC Enterprises and Carnegie Mellon University's Cloud Lab that anchors one end of AI Avenue. On the other end stands Duolingo, the world's largest language platform, which is already using AI models to revolutionize their core products.
Less than 10 minutes away from AI Avenue is the other major component to their success: the best universities in the country. Carnegie Mellon University, currently the #1 school in the country for their AI graduate program as well robotics engineering, and University of Pittsburgh both provide top educational programs, world-class professors and students hungry to dive straight into the careers along AI Avenue. This ensures our brightest minds stay in Pittsburgh and keep the city on the cutting edge.
jasujazumdinski
Emerging AI Companies
We've discussed the anchors of AI Avenue, but true success comes not only from these established businesses, but also the emerging AI companies looking to become the next household names in tech.
Two names to keep an eye on are LoveLace AI, led by CMU's former dean of computer science, which uses AI to help with disaster relief and national security, and Netail, helmed by visionary and Amazon Board of Directors' member Andrew Ng, the world's first AI business analyst.
Here's some other AI-centric companies currently based in or moving into AI Avenue:
HummingbirdAI - AI-enabled robotics and math kits for students
Strategy Robot - the world's leading computation game theory AI tech.
Pearl Street Technologies - AI modeling, renewable energy and engineering analysis designed to eliminate the bottleneck.
Skild AI- the world's first scalable robotics foundation model that can adapt to hardware and tasks.
MitoAI - AI-powered robotic scientist for life science research.
AI Horizons
More than just a home to the top AI companies, Pittsburgh is sharing their knowledge of this important tech with the world! On Oct. 14, 2024, the inaugural AI Horizons summit will be a first-in-the-world showcase of human-first AI with sessions on a greener world, societal good, wellness and more.
Hosted by the AI Horizons Pittsburgh Partnership, presenters include Pennsylvania Governor Josh Shapiro and CMU president Farnam Jahanian and leaders from BNY, the global financial services company empowering clients with scalable, trustworthy AI platforms. Supporting partners include AI Avenue denizens Google, Duolingo and Lovelace AI among the A-list of organizations involved.
Learn more about this must-attend conference, see the full list of sessions and plan your stay on the AI Horizons website.

703,574 likes
AI HorizonsHome to the world’s #1 AI school, Carnegie Mellon, this inaugural summit showcases how human-first AI…\
Learn More
Technology in PittsburghPittsburgh forges a new future, remaking an iconic steel town into a modern innovation factory.\
Learn More
Tech, Robotics & AI\
Learn More
Pittsburgh Industries & CorporationsPittsburgh is a hub for technology, manufacturing, life sciences & health and education.\
Learn More
jasujazumdinski
Jared B.
Always in search of the next great craft beer and arcade. Can be found in the Supporters Section of Pittsburgh Riverhounds games and at whatever festival is happening in the city.
jasujazumdinski