Can't Get to Dublin? Here's Where to Watch the Steelers Ireland Game in Pittsburgh
The Steelers are taking the show on the road for Dublin's first NFL game on Sunday, Sept. 28.
We've rounded up the best places to cheer them on from right here at home.
STEELERS DUBLIN GAME WATCH PARTIES
Downtown Pittsburgh
The Pittsburgh Downtown Partnership is hosting a FREE watch party in the heart of Downtown! Presented by Miller Lite, the Black & Gold Dublin Watch Party will transform Sixth Street into a lively celebration of Pittsburgh pride with an Irish flair. Event highlights include a live broadcast of the game on a giant outdoor screen, live music and entertainment from The Low Kings, and interactive games hosted by YaJagoff Media including a Paper Football Tournament, Can Stacking Challenge, Hot Potato, and Empty Can Relay. Prizes include gift cards to Sixth Street merchants and VIP seating front and center for the game! There will also be game-day specials from Sixth Street merchants such as Irish breakfast specials, promotions, and themed food and drinks.
Location: Sixth Street, Pittsburgh, PA
Time: 7:30am - 1pm; game kicks off at 9:30am
More information
Rivers Casino
Kick off the party in the BetRivers Sportsbook at Rivers Casino starting bright and early! Watch & wager on the Black & Gold, play Irish-themed slots while sipping Guinness or Dubliner Whiskey cocktails, and wear your jersey and best Irish-themed outfit. Specialty cocktails include an Irish cocktail, Irish mule, and Irish cider.
Location: Rivers Casino - 777 Casino Drive, Pittsburgh, PA Time: Casino open 24 hours; festivities start at 9am; game kicks off at 9:30am
More information
jasujazumdinski
Bakery Square
Head over to the Bakery Square courtyard for a full morning of black & gold (and green) fun! Here's what you can expect:
Game on the big screen (game starts at 9:30am)
Custom Complimentary Rally Towels *while supplies last
"Kiss Me I'm From Pittsburgh" Photo Booth
3D Steelers Chalk Art Photo Op by @thechalkingdad
Sweet & Savory Pastries *available for purchase at the City Kitchen table from 9-11am
Mimosas, Green Beer, and Guiness Cans *available for purchase at the City Kitchen bar from 9-11am
Pots of Gold Contests
Football Bingo
Kids Outfit Contest (ages 0-12) - winner gets a full basket of Steelers x Dublin Merchandise
Score Predictor Contest (21+) - winner gets a full basket of Steelers x Dublin Merchandise, including a bottle of limited edition 50th Anniversary Steelers Select Dubliner Irish Whiskey
Themed Airbrush Facepaint
Themed Balloon Art
Halftime Performance from the Bell School of Irish Dance!
Leprechaun visit from 10:30-11:30am
Location: Bakery Square Courtyard, 6425 Penn Avenue, Pittsburgh, PA Time: 8:30am - 12:00pm; game kicks off at 9:30am
More information
Bamboo Bar
This Sunday, Bamboo Bar is opening its doors early so all can celebrate a Steeler Sunday in Dublin! Call ahead for reservations in the lounge or settle in at Bamboo Bar where a buffet will be waiting for you. Beer specials only available at our Bamboo Bar and Lounge Bar.
Location: Bamboo Bar, 20810 Route 19, Cranberry Township, PA Time: Opens at 8:30am; game kicks off at 9:30am
Cork Harbour Pub
What better way to watch the Dublin game than at an Irish pub? Cork Harbour Pub in Lawrenceville has Irish coffees, 20 televisions with audio, a full bar, and more.
Location: 181 43rd Street, Pittsburgh, PA Time: Opens at 8:45am; game kicks off at 9:30am

jasujazumdinski
McFadden's
Another Irish bar that's celebrating the Steelers Dublin game is McFadden's on the North Shore. The bar is offering its full menu and $4 Guinness and Bud Lights. The party will also include DJ Jamm and a giveaway offering a chance at tickets to an upcoming Steelers-Browns game.
Location: 211 N Shore Drive, Pittsburgh, PA Time: Opens at 9am; game kicks off at 9:30am

Jason Aldean's Kitchen + Bar
Right down the strip of the North Shore sits one of the newer establishments along the way: Jason Aldean's. This country-themed bar will open its doors early for the Dublin game and serve a special brunch menu.
Location: 393 N Shore Drive, Pittsburgh, PA
Time: Opens at 9am; game kicks off at 9:30am
Tequila Cowboy
Across the street from Jason Aldean's sits another country-themed bar: Tequila Cowboy, which will also open early for the Steelers Dublin game. Like Jason Aldean's Tequila Cowboy will serve a special brunch menu, including breakfast pizza, chicken and waffles, and a breakfast wrap.
Location: 380 N Shore Drive, Pittsburgh, PA Time: Opens at 9am; game kicks off at 9:30am
jasujazumdinski
Shorty's Goodtimes Bar
The two Shorty's locations in the North Shore and Southside Works will feature $25 Green Beer Bud Light Towers, a DJ, game day menu, and over 30 TVs to catch every play of the Steelers game in Dublin.
Locations: 353 N Shore Drive, Pittsburgh, PA; 244 W Bridge Street, Pittsburgh, PA Time: Opens at 8:30am; game kicks off at 9:30am