Pittsburgh's Outdoor Movie Scene
Take in some fresh air and the latest blockbuster in one go!
When we say we're going out to the movies this summer, we mean literally.
Pittsburgh has plenty of options to catch an outdoor movie! Over the next few months, parks around the area will pop up the big screen; all you have to do is bring your chairs, blankets, snacks, and, of course, friends and family. It's a perfect time to enjoy the nice summer weather, take a date, or spend an evening relaxing under the stars.
We've rounded up where you can partake in some big picture magic in the great outdoors.
Dollar Bank Cinema In The Park
Grab a blanket or lawn chair and head out for an unforgettable evening of free cinema under the stars! Dollar Bank Cinema in the Park entertains throughout the summer in various park settings.
Return to your favorite movie location at Highland Park, Riverview Park, Schenley Park Flagstaff Hill, Schenley Plaza, Arsenal Park in Lawrenceville, Banksville Park, Brookline Memorial Park, Grandview Park in Mt. Washington, McBride Park in Lincoln Place, Ormsby Park in South Side, and West End/Elliott Overlook. Or enjoy a movie at two new sites: Liberty Green Park in East Liberty and Troy Hill Citizens Park. Movies start at dusk. View locations and movie schedule here.
jasujazumdinski
Movie Night in the Lawn at Bakery Square
Bakery Square has a summer packed full of family friendly movies for its Movie Night in the Lawn event series.
Through September, you're invited to snuggle up with a blanket on the lawn, grab some complimentary popcorn, and watch your favorites.
Click here for the full schedule.
Drive-In Movies at Allegheny County Parks
Enjoy free family-friendly movies in a classic drive-in style setting at the Allegheny County Parks! Parking is available beginning at 7:00 pm. Movies are scheduled to begin at sunset, closed captioning is available upon request. Guests are invited to bring their own food, drinks, and snacks.
Click here for the full schedule for 2025.
Drive-In Movie Theaters Around the Area
There are plenty of chances to catch a drive-in movie throughout Pittsburgh, Allegheny County and beyond! You can catch a flick at any of the following locations:
Dependable Drive In
Evergreen Drive-In Threatre
Starlight Drive-In
Riverside Drive In Threatre
Comet Drive-In Theatre & Flea Market
Brownsville Drive-In
\
10 Awesome Pittsburgh Summer Date Nights
Pittsburgh is a city that is not just easy to fall in love with, but just as easy to fall…
Details
\
Those Summer Nights \| Pittsburgh Evening Activities & Nightlife
The fun doesn't stop in Pittsburgh when the sun goes down
DetailsSupporting Local Radio Station WYEP + Hot Summer Concerts Coming Our Way
Details
\
Only in Pittsburgh Summer Festivals & Events
Mark your calendars for these 2025 Pittsburgh summer festivals and check back often for event updates!
Details
jasujazumdinski
Taylor S.
Content Development Manager
A friendly neighborhood Pittsburgh transplant.
Probably at book club, a local coffee shop or thrift store. Tell your pet I said hi.
jasujazumdinski