Your Guide to Pittsburgh BBQ Joints
Where to chow down on the Burgh's best ribs, brisket, chicken and more
Pittsburgh most likely isn't the first place you think of when you hear the word barbecue. But, like so many others things in the Burgh, this city will surprise you with finger-licking good ribs, delicious sides and the tasty cornbread you'd expect from any great BBQ place.
Here are a few of our favorites:
Walters Southern Kitchen
Located in the trendy Lawrenceville neighborhood, Walters Southern Kitchen brings the big flavors of Texas barbecue to Pittsburgh in one of the coolest spaces to eat in the city.
Walters might be the only place in the city you can get authentic favorites like Frito pie and Texas red chili, but my recommendation is to get The Sandman platter for your table so you get to try a bit of everything: brisket, ribs and pulled pork from the smoker plus three sides of your choice and cornbread.
Their brisket breakfast and pecan pie french toast, among other menu items, also make this a top spot for the brunch crowd on weekends. All this great food is enjoyed in a great atmosphere with a beautiful outdoor space and picnic tables that converts to a covered space in the colder months, so there's never a bad time to visit.

jasujazumdinski
Showcase BBQ
Ask a local where the best barbecue is in Pittsburgh, and they're likely to point you to Showcase BBQ in Homewood. The massive smokers in the parking lot and delicious smells will let you know you've reached your destination.
The turkey ribs here are good enough to come back for on their own (beef and pork slabs also available) but the add in the cabbage, yams and mac & cheese side dishes, and you'll be emailing me with thanks after you read this blog. Once you go to Showcase once, you're going to be a fan for life.
jasujazumdinski
Naka Endzone BBQ
Since 1993, Naka Endzone BBQ has been a Crafton neighborhood mainstay and a highlight of the region's barbecue scene. Find the building with the bright yellow awning and with a side painted to look like a football field, and you're in the right spot.
Start your visit here with fall-off-the-bone goodness via their turkey and pork ribs and fill your plate with sides like their candied yams and mac & cheese. The portions are huge, the price is affordable and the hot sauce is out-of-this-world good.

The Dream BBQ
Now this is my type of BBQ spot. No website or social media, cash only, an unassuming location and meat you can smell smoking around the corner.
The Dream BBQ is known primarily for their ribs, but their greens are my favorite in the city. Round out your sides with their homemade potato salad and secret recipe green beans, and you have one of the best BBQ platters anywhere.

jasujazumdinski
Wilson's Bar-B-Q
The North Side neighborhoods lost a hidden gem when the original Wilson's burnt down a few years ago. Luckily, this staple of slow-cooked, homestyle barbecue in the Burgh is now back.
Wilson's Bar-B-Q brisket sandwich topped with their famous coleslaw and BBQ sauce is a lunchtime favorite. Come back on Saturdays for the turkey ribs, but get there early; these babies sell out.

Mitch's BBQ
Sure, it's a bit of a drive north of the city. But with a unique menu of items you won't find anywhere else in the Burgh, Mitch's BBQ in Warrendale needs to be on your list.
All of the standard barbecued goodness is stellar, but the specialties here make this worth the drive every time. Their ramen is next level when you add their pork shoulder or belly, the pork rinds are made fresh in-house and the brisket buns are unreal. Come hungry!

jasujazumdinski
Stuntpig
The newest spot on this list, Stuntpig is brand new to the Squirrel Hill neighborhood, opening in June of 2024. Primarily a sandwich stop, the joy of Stuntpig is that these meat connoisseurs proudly cut, cure and smoke everything they serve.
For the purposes of this blog, grab the house-smoked Pitt Beef and the Mr. Orange smoked pulled chicken for a taste of their barbecue prowess, or grab their 24-hour marinated jerk wings or grilled pork shanks. We look forward to this being a place we point travelers to for years to come!

Wheelfish
If you've been to Texas for barbecue, you know half the appeal is the distressed wood look and metal trays that make the experience special. Add in the live blues music and extensive bourbon selection, and you've got a reason to stay all night at Wheelfish.
Luckily, the food here is as good as the ambiance. Start with their house-cured bacon with red pepper preserves and the deep fried deviled eggs (not a local? just trust me on t his one), get the brisket and salmon as your mains and load up on delicious sides. Congrats! You're now in BBQ heaven.

jasujazumdinski
Beyond the American BBQ
This ends the official section on American-inspired barbecue, but smoking delicious meats is something down across many different cultures. Head to Smoke for Tex-Mex style BBQ where their tacos have every component (including the tortillas) made from scratch and fill them with smoked goodness. Gaucho has Argentinian cuisine accentuated by their wood-fired steaks and BBQ braised short ribs. Cobra offers a Japanese BBQ experience where you grill Japanese A5 beef, American Wagyu and more tableside on a smokeless grill.
No matter where you end up, if you follow this guide, I'm sure you're going to be surprised and delighted by the exceptional BBQ you can find at these unique locations across the city.

Jared B.
Always in search of the next great craft beer and arcade. Can be found in the Supporters Section of Pittsburgh Riverhounds games and at whatever festival is happening in the city.
jasujazumdinski