New in the 412 in 2025: New Businesses, Events, and More in Pittsburgh
Everything new in one place
Pittsburgh is constantly changing and evolving, a tradition that started when our steel mills turned to technology hubs and beyond. We welcome the new while celebrating where we've come from and looking forward to where we go from here.
Here's everything new that came or is coming to Pittsburgh this year:
BARS/BREWERIES & RESTAURANTS
Whisper - Opened March 2025
Wine and dessert bar in Downtown Pittsburgh
Dad's Dog & Burger - Opened April 2025
Classic diner food offering hot dogs, burgers, fries, onion rings and more in Bloomfield
AVVA - Opened May 2025
Modern Mediterranean cuisine in Aspinwall
Capozoli's Trattoria Ristorante
Italian restaurant in the South Side
Riverlife's Shore Thing - Opened July 2025
Floating platform on Pittsburgh riverfront off of the North Side
Hey Babe - Opened July 2025
Craft cocktail-driven bar in East Liberty
Palm Palm - Opened July 2025
Restaurant with California, South American-inspired menu in Shadyside
The Finch Distillery - Opened July 2025
Rooftop bar and restaurant between Station Square and the South Side Flats
Credit \|
VisitPITTSBURGH
EVENTS
The Great Pittsburgh Book Crawl
A multi-day event encouraging book lovers to visit dozens of local bookstores throughout the Pittsburgh region
Credit \|
Kelsey Wagner
jasujazumdinski
SHOPPING
1659
Combination flower shop, cafe, and boutique clothing store in Cranberry
EmTree Bath and Body
Soaps, candles, and natural-ingredient body products in the South Side
Did we miss a new business in the Pittsburgh area? Let us know here.
Downtown Pittsburgh Dining Map
Details
\
Black-owned Businesses in Pittsburgh
Support Black-owned businesses in Pittsburgh.
Details
\
A Hungry Grl Rediscovers the South Side
As I type this, I’m sitting in Big Dog, one of my favorite coffee shops since moving back to Pittsburgh…
Details
\
Latin-Owned Businesses in Pittsburgh
Support Latin-Owned Businesses in Pittsburgh
Details
\
Vintage Clothing & Thrifting in Pittsburgh
From vintage gems to upcycled materials and bargain finds, Pittsburgh is filled with a variety of businesses to satisfy everyone…
Details
Taylor S.
Content Development Manager
A friendly neighborhood Pittsburgh transplant.
Probably at book club, a local coffee shop or thrift store. Tell your pet I said hi.
Related Content:
Save
AVVA Modern Mediterranean Cuisine235 Commercial Ave.
Aspinwall, Pennsylvania 15215
Details Open in Google Maps
Map
AVVA Modern Mediterranean Cuisine
235 Commercial Ave.Aspinwall, Pennsylvania 15215(412) 206-7878
Details
Website
jasujazumdinski